# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2020-05-15
* Duration: 90 minutes
* Purpose: Meeting on Solid specifications; status, editorial
* Call: https://meet.zrh.init7.net/solid-specification
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification

## Present

* Justin Bingham
* Sarven Capadisli
* Ruben Verborgh
* Dmitri Zagidulin
* Tim Berners-Lee

## Scribes
* Sarven Capadisli


## Agenda

### Status update on work in progress
* PRs..
* License (https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/89) (using MIT license, licensor W3C Solid CG)
* WebID-TLS https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/140 (postponned to spec restructuring)
* Effective request URI for POST https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/160 (near merge)
### Server managed metadata
## Panels and contribution

## Minutes

* JB: Auxiliary resource received approval, merged into the editorâ€™s draft - https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/156

* SC: Resource access submission related to containment, shared slash, and URI persistence went through - https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/157

* SC: Heuristic to determine resource type on post - https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/160
  * TBL: Issues with Slug
  * DZ: We should focus more on creating resource with PUT
  * TBL: Phase using Slug out
  * SC: Agree we shouldn't have to rely on Slug
  Related to issue: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/128#issuecomment-573033297
  * TBL: Propose that we should favor deterministic language, as opposed to making support for Slug behavior confusing to clients

* SC: Revision currently in the works is in line with editorial feedback

* SC: License (https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/89) (using MIT license, licensor W3C Solid CG)
  * TBL: MIT License is important - check with W3C for specifics

* JB - Server Managed metadata - Proposal for basic information, extended information
  * TBL: Basic provenance, Extended history may be flagged for future work. Consider an overlap with git.
  * DZ: Third type - Access logs - who viewed/accessed - TIMBL +1, JB +1
  * JB: We'll make use cases in interop panel and propose text
  * SC: Put a condition on this - don't bundle all discovery into one server managed resource. Look at PROV-O. JB +1

## Panels and Contribution
* TBL: Panels should be moving through things crisply and get them better defined. Chair could move things along. Chair represents the group, and is responsible for process, focus, action items.
* RV: Initial mistake was to launch too many of them. Too much parallelization
* RV: Important issue - text not evolving enough. Positive change is that we're seeing more text getting generated.
* TBL: Reason is for us to make a more quality spec.
