# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2020-04-08
* Duration: 90 minutes
* Purpose: Meeting on Solid specifications; status, editorial
* Call: https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/433028037
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification

## Present

* Sarven Capadisli
* Justin Bingham
* Ruben Verborgh
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Eric Prud'hommeaux

## Scribes

* Sarven Capadisli


## Agenda

* Status update on work in progress eg. https://github.com/solid/specification/projects/1
* Some rough consensus items: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/157
* Auxiliary Resources: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/156
* Straw poll for WebSocket support (authn/z, format..)

## Minutes

* JB: where are we going with ~FPWD? who is roughly doing what? how should we approach delivering ~FPWD?
* JB: ''going through https://solid.github.io/specification/ (based on master branch as of 2020-04-08)''
* TBL: Make sure to keep server-client and client/app specific sections separate
* RV: Agreed; that was the intention of the current sectioning 
* SC: There won't be a section on LDP, only borrow some requirements.
* RV: Problem already might be shapes, given that there is now discussion about server-side validation as well
* JB: Shall we split the document completely in two documents? (client–server , client–client)
* SC: server-server was discussed in the past (not ruled out but not focused to date)
* TBL: Refer to Client-Server as Solid Protocol
* RV: I'm all for splitting, with the following caveats:
  * there might also be server–server interactions
  * split between server–client and client–client might evolve, as some client–client features start exhibiting server-side behavior as well (Justin +1)
* JB: priority is getting Solid Protocol out
* SC : Can we focus on requirements agreed on for the FPWD? Omit sections without discussion, implementations..
* TBL: Propose to separate out client/server (protocol) and client/client. Maintain ecosystem document pointing to them.
* SC: naming, and paths.... solid/  /TR/... Issue: 
* TBL: Provisional decision - keep on github.io for now and then move to solidproject.org/specs 
* SC: Can we live without Bikeshed (and just worship the goodness of plain HTML?)
* JB: Propose several more sessions over the coming weeks focused on cementing key elements for Solid Protocol
* SC: WebSocket something something..
* JB: Let's include websockets / notifications on next agenda
