# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2020-04-27
* Time: 13:00 CET (see your local time)
* Duration: 1 hour
* Call in Details: https://whereby.com/solid-project
* Moderator: Sarven Capadisli

## Present

* Justin Bingham
* Sarven Capadisli
* Eric Prud'hommeaux

## Scribes

* Sarven Capadisli

## Organizing the Specification Work

* Variability in Specs: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/138
* Review initial outline (in master branch)
* Look at best way to provide status of work on various spec sections
* Use "topic based organization"

## Resource Metadata

* Relating to https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/156
* Determine appropriate way to refer to section as a whole
* Metadata considered too broad of a term
* Consider renaming to Auxillary Resources
* Move specific metadata types into their own sections
