# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2020-06-12
* Time: 14:00 CEST / 08:00 EST
* Duration: 1 hour
* Call: https://meet.zrh.init7.net/solid-specification

## Present

* Sarven Capadisli
* Justin Bingham


## Scribes

* Sarven Capadisli
* Justin Bingham



## Minutes

### Issues with information organization
* Site should be citeable and referenceable by others writing about solid, and those references should help ensure solid is discussed accurately.

### Panel work in flight
* Authorization Panel Resurrected
* Use Cases and Requirements
* Interoperable Ecosystem Proposal

### Need to be able to find out what access a given agent has
* Ability for an agent to query the access that they have on a given resource without control access.

### Documenting Minutes
* List panel meetings in the wiki
* Create space per panel into the wiki
* Recommending to have active panel members sign up to w3c community group
* Justin to submit pull request to solid/process

### Solid World
* Sarven to present an editorial update
* Get inputs from editorial team ahead of that for sharing