# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2020-09-04

## Present

- Justin Bingham
- Ruben Verborgh
- Sarven Capadisli
- Tim Berners-Lee

## Scribes

- Justin Bingham

## Agenda

- Review current status
    - What's been done
    - What's in flight
    - What's left to do
- Path to Draft Spec
- PR Reviews
    - https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/185
    - https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/190
    - https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/196
- Issue Reviews
    - https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/116
    - https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/14

## Minutes

TBL: Access Control and Authorization is the most urgent at the moment. Has been a lot of rapid discussions about access control.

JB: Noting that authorization panel has documented use cases that reflect some of the urgent needs that have also been raised around wac inheritance (https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/wac-ucr/)

SC: Attempting to transition from rough consensus to requirements. Looking to reorganize the outline. Still need to focus the spec on the core interactions (i.e. Solid Protocol https://solid.github.io/specification/ ). Want to restructure this to a point that captures the core Solid Protocol. Need to figure out what release of the spec should cover optional integrations. Clients and apps will be a separate spec.

SC: Should WebID spec be updated? Should we clean up the current WebID spec? Authentication panel has dependencies on WebID and contents of profile document.

SC: Do we consider one draft spec for solid ecosystem as a whole, then as we go forward we update it? We could point to loosely coupled specs (i.e. Authentication, Authorization) even though they are in-progress. Do all related spec drafts need to be in place for FPWD?

TBL: Normal to have a high-level spec that involves other specs. Two scenarios (you control all specs, specs that you depend on you don't control)
    - Main spec relies on interface between the specs
    - Reasonable to have modular specs
    - Valuable to roll out the overall spec often (high-level spec plus dependents - core protocol, wac, authn)
    
SC: Can we have a draft review of the "ecosystem" spec

TBL: Clarity on what the ecosystem spec is. Ecosystem includes everything across solid, more of a vision document. Primary spec is the "Solid Protocol". Solid Ecosystem includes the "Solid Protocol" specification

### Specify container listing mechanism - https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/116

SC: WAC is resource based access control. Question was raised about whether a use should see resources they don't have read access to in the containment listing. Currently we allow them to see a list if they have read on the collection.

TBL: Current approach is simple, works for caching. Shouldn't overcomplicate.

SC: Minimal design works out well - can do extensions for additional filtering without worry about core wac.

### Discuss returning 404 for privacy reasons - https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/14

https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/14#issuecomment-683480525
https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/116#issuecomment-674409281


