# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2020-05-22
* Time: 12:00 Zulu / UTC, 14:00 CEST, 08:00 EST
* Duration: 1 hour
* Call: https://meet.zrh.init7.net/solid-specification

## Present

* Sarven Capadisli
* Justin Bingham


## Scribes

* Sarven Capadisli
* Justin Bingham



## Minutes
* Solid Process
  * Justin - Wasn't a negative response to issues raised with panels in https://github.com/solid/process/issues/202, so will proceed to a pull request. Will submit pull on process to propose that panels have a bit more structure (i.e. chairs)

## Community Engagement

* Justin - Based on feedback, it seems that solidproject.org should provide a better perspective on what solid actually is, what is happening in solid, and how to engage in the work that's proceeding. Coming across too much like a marketing site, not tactical enough.
* Sarven - Forum shouldn't be a replacement for anything, should be in addition to. Need to figure out the proper licensing.
* Justin - Also a lot of feedback about it being hard to navigate all of the github repositories to know which to follow, which issues to chime in on, etc.
* Sarven - Can we get people in the community to help provide and/or summarize updates for sharing (i.e. in the forum). Can we get volunteers? Can we get people to also help raise issues back to us from an editorial standpoint?
* Justin - We need to raise an issue about any shortcomings on solidproject.org that keep people from understanding what's happening and how to participate.

## Heuristics Pull Request
* Sarven - Heuristics Pull Request - WIP: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/160
  Spotted some issues/unclarity. Will propose an update.

## Use Cases

* Justin - Sharing elf Pavlik's pull at https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/41
* Sarven - Consider approach for this as solid-wide
* Justin - Propose putting this document in solid/specification (still as an individual document)
* Justin - Should also go through the editorial process
