# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

Date: 2020-05-29

Time: 14:00 CEST / 08:00 EST
Duration: 1 hour
Call in Details: https://meet.zrh.init7.net/solid-specification
Agenda/Summary:

## Present
* Sarven Capadisli
* Justin Bingham
* Matthias Evering

## Scribes

* Sarven Capadisli
* Justin Bingham



## Minutes

* Justin - https://github.com/solid/process/issues/202 - Planning to suggest action items for rough consensus in the issue this weekend - Will then create process change following that

* Justin - Work in progress on the interoperability panel to address https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/blob/ecosystem-proposal/problems-and-goals.md. Progressing in the interoperability panel on https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/blob/ecosystem-proposal/proposals/ecosystem.bs branch. Application registration will start being reviewed by panel next week.

* Justin - Work progressing on shapetrees at https://github.com/shapetrees. Helps to inform shape validation and shape tree validation proposals that'll be made to the core spec.

* Sarven - Discussion around https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/160#issuecomment-635932724
  * Much more detail provided in the comment
  * Functional requirements and conformance criteria added in the comment