# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-06-22
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification


## Present

- Tim Berners-Lee
- Justin Bingham
- Kjetil Kjernsmo
- Sarven Capadisli

## Scribes

* Sarven Capadisli
* Justin Bingham

## Agenda




## Minutes

KK: Do we have a gitter chat for this group only
- JB +1
- SC: No. No need. Keep the process open by reusing https://gitter.im/solid/specification -- can help to get more people engaged.

JB: Propose prioritization at a feature / capability level, so that related issues can be tagged
- Timbl +1
- KK: As currently constituted it can be hard to pinpoint the specific work to be done

KK: Hoping to deliver an editor's draft in next two weeks
- SC: KK referring to specifically Protocol (~WD), WAC (~WD), Solid OIDC (~FPWD). None are set as CG's goal besides "expected completion" set in https://solidproject.org/TR/ (which did not have wide consensus apparently.)

SC: In these meetings the focus should be community group, with input from implementors

SC: Solid-OIDC could be a FPWD (roughly)

SC: WAC needs to be PR'd against the specification repo as a working draft. Should identify implementations, and ideally show test reports, if possible (can be taken into consideration at PR).

TBL: Protocol is behind, and needs to be prioritized to get done / complete.
- SC: Sure. Realistic in ~3 weeks? Who is working on what?

JB: What is the delta on protocol to FPWD?

JB: What is the bar to reference something (like secure websockets) from the protocol draft? (private implementation, open implementation, design draft? specification draft?)

Timbl: Secure Websockets is top priority (regression + security issue).

SC: Things mentioned from the "Solid spec features" are those that could be referenced from the protocol spec with a relatively low-bar.

Timbl: At-Risk means all-hands on deck (ship is leaking - patch the leak)

JB: Proposed action items: 
- Get implemetors of secure websocket to brief sub-group of editors with walkthrough of secure websocket design (JB))
- Figure out of the issues tagged at FPWD are the delta of issues to be resolved for the protocol (KK)

KK: Need to incorporate the Kanban board into this cycle


