# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-04-06
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification

## Present
* Justin Bingham
* Sarven Capadisli
* Kjetil Kjernsmo
* Dmitri Zagidulin

## Scribes

* Sarven Capadisli
* Justin Bingham

## Agenda

* Announcements
* Pull Requests
* Issues
* Topic Items
    * Protocol Feature list 

## Minutes

### Access Modes

JB: Believe that access modes should be more exact. For example, write is overloaded (allows for creating, deleting, updating), as opposed to create, delete, update permissions.

KK: Believe in principle of least privilege

SC: Be careful to decouple operations from access modes in protocol discussions. Possible to have any mode in WAC/ACL if needed. Not all authorization requirements entail "access modes" (in the ACL sense). Possible to use capability based security model.

JB: Main use case I want to make sure is that we're able to rigidly control create resource vs. affecting non-managed triples in container graph

SC: Possible in WAC/ACL.


### Auxiliary Resources

KK: Question about the use / pattern of auxiliary resources

SC: Discussion about the pattern of having auxiliary resources tied to lifecycle .. has_odrl eg. https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues/12 (and side discussion with Tim on resusing describedby for ODRL for the time being.)

JB: What's the pattern / ground rules for overloading describedby vs. adding a new aux resource type

TBL: Try to avoid adding new auxiliary resource types as much as possible vs. storing in describedby - generally try to add new ones



