# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-07-06

## Present
* Justin Bingham
* Sarven Capadisli

## Scribes
* Justin Bingham

## Agenda

* **Action Items from Last Week**
    - **TBD** - Determine github repo/location for meeting minutes (all editors)
    - **DONE** - Update columns in solid/specification to reflect editorial phases (from latest process) (KK)
    - **DONE** - Tag monthly items with a "current month" milestone (KK)
    - **DONE** - Move items for this month into that milestone (KK)
    - **IN-PROGRESS** - Identify reference issue for notification protocol / secure websockets to be tracked
        - *JB: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/49 seems wide enough to cover notification protocol + websockets*
    - **IN-PROGRESS** - Review proposed websocket doc (all editors)
* **Prioritized Items**
    * Notification Protocol / Secure Websockets - See: https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/feature/notification-protocol-data-flows/notification-protocol-data-flows.md
    * Ownership
    * Server-managed metadata
    * SPARQL-Update

## Minutes

### Notifications Protocol / Secure Websockets

SC: Where should the notification protocol / secure websocket work be conducted? Where to move the proposal document? Resurrect the notification panel?

JB: Ideally should be iterating on the document together with implementors / implementation.

Action Item: Pick a place for the work to live (e.g. solid/notifications-panel)

(Agreement from JB / SC to gaugue interest in participating in these efforts)

See: https://github.com/solid/process/issues/258

Action Item: Organize a meeting of interested parties to figure out how to advance the effort forward.
