# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-09-04
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification

## Present

- Justin Bingham
- Sarven Capadisli
- Ruben Verborgh
- Dmitri Zagidulin
- Tim Berners-Lee

## Scribes

- Justin Bingham

## Agenda

- Recap of activity since last session
    - SC: Justin, can we make solidproject.org/TR/ available soon? Otherwise, I'll have apply for Admin ;)
    - https://solid.github.io/specification/protocol
- Goals and milestones for 2021
    - https://solid.github.io/specification/#work-items - proposed (Sarven)
- Editors of sub-specs (e.g. Solid-OIDC)
- Solid Process/vocab management: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/247 (Tim to review)
    - SC: Tim, please review soonish? :) I have a follow-up PR for solid/vocab
- Check/reminder about the websockets spec
- Question if it makes sense to resurrect https://github.com/solid/identity-panel/issues/1 in the /specification repo 
    - SC: Dmitri, quick feedback: can we get some uptake (implementation) in the community before raising its profile
    - DZ: Yep, sounds good. I think my main question is - is there any interest or objection within this team.
    - SC: No objection.. but need to understand how it fits with Solid-OIDC etc.. did-web
- CORS proxy (Tim brought this up)

## Minutes

- JB: Action item: Delete and resend meeting series with jitsi link
- SC: update protocol:
    - abstract (why, what's core)
    - add conformance (exit) criteria
    - add current state of websocket req
- TBL: Websocket is part of the spec
- SC: Prefer not to refer back to prior documents
- JB: Can we mention or point to the in-flight websocket work in the meantime and mention that it is happening but not ready
- TBL: Provide more detail on patching (generally), and on the details of patching via websocket (add as goal)
- TBL: Reasonable to put in a placeholder for ACP / Authorization Use Cases as additional work in progress
- SC: Concerned about pointing to ACP ahead of use cases and requirements
- JB: Propose linking to authorization requirements / use cases at a minimum
- SC: wait until agreed solution is available before including in Protocol
- JB: Action Item to get specs under solidproject.org/TR
- JB: Can we use something like solid:pod instead of pim:storage? Timbl - reasonable question
- SC: create internationalization issue for solid/terms, pim/space..
