# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-07-20

## Present

- Tim Berners-Lee
- Justin Bingham
- Ruben Verborgh

## Scribes
- Justin Bingham

## Minutes

```
justinwb
justinwb says:
https://github.com/solid/process/issues/258
13:20
me says:
https://github.com/linkeddata/rdflib.js/blob/main/src/update-manager.ts#L605
13:27
justinwb
justinwb says:
https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/feature/notification-protocol-data-flows/notification-protocol-data-flows.md
justinwb says:fyi - just started taking some notes when ruben joined - 
https://hackmd.io/tR-N3JgTR1qtNytyrO_oQQ
13:45
```

TBL: Secure websockets is top priority

JB: Need to get implementors together to look at options and possible drafts. We have one draft that has been shared but not proposed. Likely needs a fair bit of work. 

RV: Need to ensure that we have a good draft, clean up any possible shortcuts / workarounds.

JB: In a place where we need notifications / websockets urgently, but also need a good spec / design. What's best way to avoid ending up with inadequate solution?

RV: Need to get versioning in for websocket

JB: Purpose of proposing resurrecting notification panel, was essentially to use that as a vehicle to get the right people together to work on an implementation and advance a draft document together.

TBL: OK +1 / RV +1

RV: Would like to be involved Initial discussions on protocol would 

JB: Action Item: I will coordinate the session (as part of or as a precursor to getting the panel going)
