# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-02-16

## Present
* Justin Bingham
* Dmitri Zagidulin
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Sarven Capadisli

## Scribes

* Sarven Capadisli
* Justin Bingham


## Agenda

* Announcements
* Pull Requests
* Issues
* Topic Items
    * W3C CredentialsCG Presentation (March 10)
    * WICG / WebID Meeting (February 22)
    * Shape Tree Validation / CSS
    * Publish / Subscribe
    * Discovery Patterns


## Minutes

### W3C CredentialsCG Presentation

SC: Aim to look at places where we can collaborate / overlapping places / digital wallets / did. Present out key work items / specs. They will present in our authz panel time slot, and they will present in their regular time slot later that day.

Agenda: Sarven will intro to Solid CG / Tim on Solid project/ecosystem/architecture / Sarven on Protocol / Henry - Identity / Aaron - Authentication / Henry - Authorization / Justin - Interop

DZ: Two groups are very similar. Central CG with a bunch of task forces / sub-groups (e.g. panels). They have DID, COnfidential storage, Educational Task Force. Form some very complimentary sets of technology. Working on tech that solid could just drop in. DID, VC, Confidential storage (drop LDP on top of it). Things Solid is working on that could be beneficial - higher application level protocols: multi-rs authentication. Access control - they have the zcap spec, but there's no equivalent identity-based acl. Data interop ecosystem stuff - this is an access request. This is an application's web id profile. These are indexes / type indexes. That group will need to do that also, but hasn't started thinking about it yet. One area of concern - two thirds of the community group are familiar with JSON-LD. Almost none are familiar with turtle. Since we tend to be turtle focused, it might appear as more exotic and unfamiliar to them.

TBL: JSON-LD/Turtle always been something where community has wanted to have their cake and eat it too. Lets try to avoid that dispute. Look at getting VC code into the data browser code base.

JB: Have been able to demonstrate VCs in Application Profiles

DZ: Confidential storage - describes a key-value interface, plus a simple query interface. Using EDV as a storage adapter is a natural fit (e.g. for CSS). Second spec that confidential storage group is working on - identity hubs (essentially solid). Identity Hub is broader / more vaguely defined. Wants to do everything that solid does (e.g. collections, authentication, access control, inboxes, messaging). Might be interesting for identity hub portion to use Solid specs.

JB: Why not use Solid for Identity Hub

DZ: Primarily unfamiliarity. Recommend people from Solid start joining in those sessions as well. Just started to talk about interface between EDV and Identity Hub.

JB: What's the interface between?

DZ: HTTP API exposed by EDV (CRUD HTTP API). Main discussion is division of responsibilities? Which of the specs controls replication? Who's going to be doing the replication? Which spec will handle which aspect.

JB: Seems there are two aspects: Technologies we can collaborate on (DID, VC), but then whether we work together on a data store (e.g. Solid) vs. work in parallel on competing / similar things (Solid vs. Identity Hub).

TBL: MS should be a good fit for Solid. If we can get a global ID system.

JB: Diverge or Converge

TBL: Need to be sure that we look at these opportunities to diverge vs. converge and try to converge where we can. We have aspirations to be very big. We're fed up with have six different ways to log into things. We want to be able to use this for all data. May be worth having some combined workshops.

Goal: Get additional sessions setup with different people for work moving forward

JB: How do we work backwards from having one combined projects to currently having two diverging projects

SC: That's what a working group is for - approach to standardize

TBL: Could start a chartered working group

DZ: Tim thoughts on potential for integration of WebIDs / DIDs?

TBL: No reason not to have that integration, as long as there's a way to come in through HTTP.

TBL: Other homework - Solid Roadmap is missing things. Needs a bit of refactoring. SolidOS vs. broader Solid roadmap. If there are things missing from it - there needs to be a Solid ecosystem roadmap. Please review. 

Look at Web KMS and digital wallets

