# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-08-10

## Present

- Justin Bingham
- Sarven Capadisli
- Ruben Verborgh
- Kjetil Kjernsmo

## Scribes
- Justin Bingham
- Kjetil Kjernsmo

## Agenda

- Notifications Update
- Solid Editor's Role in addressing old technology
- [Current Month Milestone](https://github.com/solid/specification/milestone/4)

## Minutes

### Notifications Updates

JB: Making progress in getting implementers brought together to put together an action plan to deliver spec + supporting implementations as part of panel initiative.

RV: Had a task to gather more information on what inrupt shared. Have got that material. Not a lot of information just yet.
- Missing: proper req engineering (doc with some key requirements)
- Questions: why is every message a json-ld blob? those kind of questions have to be answered
- Versioning is missing as well. If versioning is defined then it makes it more possible to implement a draft and then upgrade.
- Need some more reasons about why it works.
- Not in spec ready format yet

SC: 

### Solid Editor's Role in addressing old technology

KK: Was meeting on addressing how we ensure older and/or legacy items don't hinder solid's forward progress. Is a role for implementers to voice opinion on what is/isn't sustainable, and for editors to provide more insight on what should/shouldn't be supported.

SC: Need to be sure to cite and/or record issues / minutes. 

JB: Current spec document is pretty explicit that Solid-OIDC (linked to latest draft) is what is required for the compliant protocol. Not so much a spec problem, as much as how we communicate to the community what is / isn't compliant.

SC: Since starting point for the new spec has been Solid-OIDC, it may not be appropriate in the document to say "don't use WebID-OIDC" because it never existed in the document. Have to look at other mediums for awareness / communication. 
- Ensure that any test-suite is marking WebID-OIDC as deprecated 
- Ensure that community members know that WebID-OIDC shouldn't be part of solutions / approaches

JB: What are mediums that we can use to provide some of these "editorial advisements"? Should we be using the community group mailing list? Forum? Blog posts on solidproject.org?

### Action Items

- Ruben to do another follow-up on Inrupt's shared notifications proposal
- Justin to continue working on notification panel initiation / participant support
