# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-06-01

## Present

* Justin Bingham
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Sarven Capadisli

## Scribes

- Justin Bingham

## Agenda

- Pull Requests
    - [Add notion of owner and requirements](https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/264)
- Topics
    - Inrupt Process for Contribution
    - Projected [solid spec features](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OyNfITZgptXD-U1DmWeW5sEW3joO9yqziriV1WRR4C8/edit?usp=sharing)
    - Updating solidproject.org/specification in line with [solid spec features](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1OyNfITZgptXD-U1DmWeW5sEW3joO9yqziriV1WRR4C8/edit?usp=sharing)

## Minutes

- Input: Inrupt has had a internal process to help the internal spec team speed up.

- JB: +1 on more specific milestones.

- TIMBL: Make each roadmap task richer

- SC: Have aimed to work within the W3C process from the start. Issues are tagged appropriately. Data and process is there eg. https://github.com/solid/specification/projects/1 , https://github.com/solid/specification/milestones

- SC: Need to have projected dates updated on the TR report page since the following didn't pan out:
    - https://gitter.im/solid/specification?at=5ff451e022f12e449b311e1f
    - https://gitter.im/solid/authentication-panel?at=5ff451ebacd1e516f8d4bf1e
    - https://gitter.im/solid/data-interoperability-panel?at=5ff451eec746c6431cf7f166
    - https://gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel?at=5ff451f1aa6bb528c390d53b

JB: Propose using the solid spec features for milestones and identity delta - prioritize what to resolve between then and now. Use requirement tickets for features that might need additional context.

Action: SC to follow-up with editors/panels etc.. on rough/hard expected dates.

TIMBL: Prefer versioned specifications

Action: Justin to setup weekly recurring meeting / session to work on advancing project coordination

Consensus to resolve https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/8
"Consensus from Editor's Meeting 2021-06-01 with present from @timbl @justinwb, @csarven and @kjetilk:

The Editors prefer a versioned specification approach to allow implementers to code against a stable version."

+1 JB
