# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-09-14

## Present

- Justin Bingham
- Kjetil Kjernsmo
- Dmitri Zagidulin
- Sarven Capadisli

## Scribes
- Justin Bingham
- Sarven Capadisli

## Agenda

* Moving Web Sockets to Notifications panel?
* Process [Current Month Milestone](https://github.com/solid/specification/milestone/4)
* Set up next month milestone, start nomination
* Solid CG meeting at TPAC confirmed: https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2021/GroupMeetings#CG_Group_Meetings_details

## Minutes

### Moving Web Sockets to Notifications panel?

* Sarven: Provides account of the charter review and status on the Notification Panel. Charter has been merged. 
* Editor's Meeting resolved to move the WebSocket issue to the Notification Panel.


### Specify Container Description https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/227

KK: Have a separate auxiliary resource that includes minimal subset of server-managed metadata 

DZ: Don't make it too complicated. Specify a minimal set and make it accessible based on access.

KK: If there is a link from the container to the auxiliary resource then you would have to get both if there's more data to get.

SC: Need to allow the container to be editable by the client for client-supplied metadata. Additionally there's server managed metadata about the contained resources. There has been issue with the server having to check client access to each resource when listing them (to present additional metadata with the listing). Option is to have the server manage server-managed metadata in another auxiliary resource.

DZ: Are there any issues with timestamps, creator being maintained by the server?  (no issues raised)

SC: Is there a benefit to splitting the server-managed data into another resource? considering that the server has to do the same work to materialise the metadata about contained resources depending on user's access.

DZ: Simplifies the access control rules

SC: Generally agree that it's easier to manage, but we have a way to already do that.

JB: Agree with benefit to access control. Also have found need to filter out server managed triples when dealing with container graphs, and possibility for performance penalties when the containment triples are always included in reading / writing.

KK: current behaviour is container resource has compound state

SC: don't diverge from curent practice and self-describing resource practice.

Consensus: Keep the compound state of container resources. 

SC: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/227#authoritative-resource-metadata-options

DZ: 

- ... 
- Specify minimum metadata in listing
- ...
- Give access to the richer metadata selectively

SC: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/227#user-content-server-managed-information-exposure - re don't expose more than 401/403.

KK: It is important for query optimization. There's a difference between data and metadata.

KK: Further consensus was not reached, we need to move these issues to the next milestone.

### Next month milestone

KK: We need to start nomination of issues for the next monthly milestone. When should that start?

KK: [Nomination](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/solid-editors-tr-process.md#nomination)

SC: CG members can comment on issues eg: "I nominate this issue to be included in next Editor's meeting because x,y,z. #nextmilestone"

## Action Items
* Sarven: to get confirmation from the notifications-panel to move relevant events/notifications issues to its repository.

* Kjetil to create a "Nominated" label on the repo
