# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-06-29

## Present

- Justin Bingham
- Kjetil Kjernsmo
- Ruben Verborgh
- Tim Berners-Lee

## Scribes

* Sarven Capadisli
* Justin Bingham

## Minutes

JB: Where to store these minutes? Propose using same github workflow as panels. +1 KK 

Action Item: Pick which repo to store minutes in GH

KK: Have open PRs, but also need to do some more issue prioritization

JB: Also need to provide more guidance on copyright / contributors.

KK: Items to triage
* SPARQL-Update
* Ownership
* Secure Websockets
* Server-managed metadata


### Secure Websockets

JB: Noting that we have had progress with Secure Websockets, see branch submitted at https://github.com/solid/specification/tree/feature/notification-protocol-data-flows,
https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/271

JB: Protocol / Pattern that can be implemented by different channel types (e.g. websocket, sse)

KK: Lets put into the assessment phase for now. +1 JB

KK: Need to have issues to more thoroughly prioritize / review. +1 JB

TIMBL: Public implementation available?

KK: Is there an issue we can use as the main point for this?

JB: There are a number of relevant issues at: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+websocket+label%3A%22topic%3A+events+and+notifications%22. Probably best to make a new one, and then reference.

JB: Will take action to create issue in solid/specification to track

KK: Should we make a new project board, or only have a milestone?

JB: Current project board columns are close to the editorial phases (what about updating to match)?
+1 KK, +1 JB, +1 TIMBL

KK: Should we then have a milestone for the current month?
+1 JB (also prioritize cards to the top)

Action Items:
- Determine github repo/location for meeting minutes (all editors)
- Update columns in solid/specification to reflect editorial phases (from latest process) (KK)
- Tag monthly items with a "current month" milestone (KK)
- Move items for this month into that milestone (KK)
- Identify and/or create reference issue for secure websocket to be tracked (JB)
- Review proposed websocket doc (all editors)









