# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-06-15

## Present

- Justin Bingham
- Kjetil Kjernsmo
- Ruben Verborgh
- Sarven Capadisli

## Scribes

- Justin Bingham
- Kjetil Kjernsmo

## Agenda

- Document Review / Discussion
- Milestone / Priorities
- W3C Versions

## Minutes

### Document Review / Discussion

KK: Propose to submit a PR for the editorial document to solid/process. Should also link to this from the main README. (main process readme needs cleanup but that can be done separately)

RV: Doc is reasonable

JB: Believe my feedback has been captured. Believe we can start working this way now. Focus on measurable progress.

+1 JB, +1 RV

### Milestones

JB: Proposing that we establish milestones with target features at a level of (e.g. Ownership, ACP, Websockets).

KK: Do milestones have to be tied to a version?

JB: No strong preference - might be easier if they aren't tightly coupled to specific version.

KK: Need to determine how W3C document versions are related

### Implementation Requirements

KK: When should an implementation be required?

JB: Can be contextual. Certain contexts it is always needed, some may be able to agree in advance.

RV: Should establish a gate / line for point where it is required.

SC: In certain cases a giant ask for implementation before spec might exclude contribution. So if you set the bar too high than participants with a lot of resources can dictate too much which goes into the spec.

SC: https://www.w3.org/TR/ldn/#exit-criteria
Must be one version of the spec that is stable enough to have implementation requirements (in LDN example), with two independent implementations that meet the criteria.

KK: Agree this is something we need. Need to determine priority.

SC: What are the requirements (implementation+) for panel specifications to be included in solid/specification and published under TR/.

JB: +1 on implementations from panel submissions

### Versioning Scheme



### Monthly Cycle

JB: When does the monthly cycle start? Proposing that we pick a date to start it, and jump in.

A few questions:
- where do we post questions about how to operate in this cycle
- where do minutes get posted
- how do we operate the weeklies (scribe, q+s)
- what's the focus of the first cycle

JB: Propose to start monthly cycle next Tuesday. Agree to have items to start next monthly cycle by then? KK +1

SC: Propose we stick to something memorable (e.g. last/first tuesday of the month, last day of the month)

JB: Third tuesday of the month?  +1 KK

KK: Might require adjustments in certain points of the year.

JB: Would seem reasonable that we could agree on adjustments needed from time to time.

SC: How to keep meetings / monthly cycles focused and not get diverted?

JB: Suggest we have focused agendas in weeklies and especially in the monthlies.

KK: Use the solid/specification repo / board to track todo items and issues pertaining to this

+1 SC, +1 JB
