# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2022-03-09T11:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Justin Bingham
* Kjetil Kjernsmo
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Osmar Olivo
* Barath Raghavan
---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven Capadisli


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Update process
URL: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/270

* OO: Working with Tim and Barath to improve the spec process. We have first draft proposal. Gave to Tim last week. Suggested to make it public. Here to answer questions and give more context. Happy to walk you through, history on how we got here. Explain motivations etc so we are on the same page.

* SC: OO screen shares.

* OO: Initially started as a campaign by myself and Barath at Inrupt to understand the spec process. We need this / this is ht eprocess. I read the spec process but did not find the process. We have a hybrid process - we take things from W3C and do something different. Barath and I had meetings on existing W3C process and do a diff with our process. W3C Process - you're experts.. so won't be too long. WD->CR->PR->REC.

* OO: Our process as currently written down. Pretty different.

* TBL: We need to encourage people to CR / make implementations - we shouldn't wait long.

* OO: Solid Process as currently written down. We probably have different version of the process - what's in our heads - but different for anyone coming from outside perhaps. Draft Proposal->Candidate Proposal->Editorial Process->Accepted. That's what's written not necessarily practised.

* OO: Gaps in our process: there is no wait time before marking something as accepted. IMO, informally we set loose timeframes but not written down. Can be challenging for an outsider because there is no place on stage it is in.

* OO: We talk about stakeholders but who are they.. how are they kept track of for being invited to vote? And who gets to vote?

* OO: I haven't personally seen a panel vote.

* OO: It doesn't mention nothing about implementations needed to reach a certain stage. For example, CSS wants stuff in the spec, but then the spec wants implementations. That's not written down anywhere. We should be clear.

* TBL: Clearly, what we have to do is move things into getting things like WebSockets implemented in CSS. Top priority in our backlog. We need lots of versions. We have 0.9 but then when we have WebSockets we can have CR and increment. Normally people implement stuff when they hear about it.. rather than when they are in CR. 

* OO: Movement from draft draft proposal to candidate proposal is super vague. because there's no working group is it up to each panel? For transparency, important to be clear.

* OO: Any Editor can Veto feels like any one editor can put up blockers consistently. Wouldn't a 2/3rds vote or something like that be more reasonable?

* OO: Nothing on deprecation and backwards compatibility. From one version to next.

* TBL: What do you mean by accepted?

* OO: Accepted as a recommendation. Someone submits something.. it could take a month or a year.. but from our end it is unclear but clear in W3C. Happy to use "recommendation"

* TBL: Published as a REC.

* OO: This is not a campaign to move 100% to W3C Process but they have a working process and good to look at what we do and possible solutions.

* OO: W3C has formal membership; nominate members and invited experts.

* TBL: W3C has formality because at its core it is because of patents.

* OO: W3C didn't have great advice here.. but eg. hiring contractors to make second implementations is common.

* OO: The PR is more about day to day.

* TBL: CSS for example should implement a CR.

* OO: Panels are not formally voted even though that's what we say in the process.

* JB: We might need to clarify "formal" because we do voting regularly. Does it have a certain composition? It happens in different ways for groups.

* OO: What do we need to do to move from DP->CP->EP->A.. in the text as opposed to what's in practice. It is informal for anyone from the outside to know what's going on. If we formalise,

* OO: Consensus does not mean unanimity per W3C. Some things stay in limbo for a long time in Solid CG. That doesn't happen in W3C WG.

* TBL: Formal objections is a tool... either agree or disagree with everything for quality specs if everyone is checked in. FO process is if you really don't want this we note it and attach to it for later. The spec can go through with FO stabled to it in a parallel process. Sometimes FOs are trivial - just people wanting to mess up something then W3C will get involved eg. not done in good faith. It is to get on with the main track of the document.

* OO: Today we don't have a formal objection process. We have a consensus-like process. We need to formalise a bit.

* OO: Barath's PR doesn't address everything. There are things that needs more discussion. Make it more accessible and transparent. Make it easy to see the status of the spec. That's the context of the PR.

* OO: Next step here is to review..

* KK: I'm all for cleaning up the process. But it doesn't really address the issues that's plaguing us. Many of us have been through WGs. One of the things in the WGs, then it doesn't really go anywhere. We need to reach a certain level of maturity to use the W3C Process. So the intention was to have a lightweight process and then move to W3C Process.

* OO: The poposal is about the gaps..

* KK: The problem with this proposal is that it doesn't address our day to day stuff. What is important are more constrained in scope. Other people are working on the day to day rather than the process.

* KK: The protocol is not in panel. The panels are lightweight. Get together and do something. but it turned into heavyweight. It was also opposed to ?Bacon.. but that's what happened. When you say for example there should be a time limit but that's not what happened but no one is coming forward to make the concrete work that needs to be done to do the discussions. So we don't get that timely commitment. Yes you could say that this has a deadline next Thursday.. and by next Thursday there is silence.. what do yo udo then? Shut it down? Or accept this on faith? That's basically the options we have.

* TBL: Lack of effort.

* OO: One of the things in the process is that if someone doesn't do it then it moves on to next person. At the end of the day, you can give them the title of the editor, then they are not doing the work.. I understand it is hard to get volunteers.. but if not tracking then not getting ???

* TBL: This is where the disconnect is IMO. Solid Editors is just scoop of people with limited amount of time. If you add more tracking to see who is doing what.. and reassign after a while and remove them from the Editors.. it is very simple because you just end up with no one. Punishment?

* TBL: if after some time and nothing is done, then it is interesting enough to know why.. not enough priority or ? Do you want to change the priority or maybe spend time - after two years - then that's because it is 345345245 on hte list. It is not going to move.

* TBL: It is also a bit weird to have a role outside?

* B: I have a couple of things.. "release manager role". The idea of reassignment and why it is in the draft. I've seen this on IETF side.. I haven't been on W3C side.. but community. The broader ecosystem. So it is more of a responsibility to them as opposed to some spec text didn't move forward. It doesn't have to be an automatic process. Everyone is busy and naturally there is a cadence to change the flow.. in terms of release management, in the current PR, the idea for the release manager that Tim and Oz proposed/discussion so I added there. So it i snot with Editorial decision making power. What's the timeline / who is assigned now. 

* JB: I'm generally happy how it improves - little or a lot. Kjetil made good points. We can improve our process even if it doesn't fix all of it. This is an important bit of context.. a lot of stuff we put into monthly cycles that's tied to GH issues and most of those - "smaller items" - that either clarify certain level of complexity / short term. When we don't have mixed stuff in regularly then the implementors don't get the context or see the features. The attention placed on smaller items may be keep us from the bigger items. We have been working several weeks on milestone / prioritised. I'd call them more like bigger picture items. It could get more attention and contributions / engagement. Once you get it, it can be contagious and lead to smaller things. Good to maintain a healthy mix. so that people see beyond moving the bar.. you're also seeing stuff that's substantive on feature level. I think we are making steps to do those things. We could make th eprocess perfect but not necessarily deliver.

* KK: Release manager is in a beurocratic role that can be helpful. Moreover it oculd be combined with a role that sarven has been playing a lot.. explaining things to the community which is taking a lot of time. We haven't had that. That significantly slowed us down.

* KK: How I proposed this was initially - where I also discussed. What I think is also in the editorial monthly process, we should nominate issues and have the community say that they are commiting time to that.. then we can commit / prioritise as Editors. It is mostly about commitments. Sasrven and Ive been doig it and prioritising.. but not something people showed up to do. We haven't seen that happening even though we tried to .. if that's going on, then it needs to have time commitments. Then ends up on the monthly milestone. Since we haven't had time commitment and prioritisation.. then it neds up sarven and I doing sutff.. that is the main problem.

* OO: There are communication gaps.. some implementors say that they gave everything needed.

* SC: Proposed changes should reflect reality/practice. See how the templates emerged, charter eg. notifications-panel re voting, charter duration, ... getting actual quality reviews / proper contributions, day to day work in the community. No one contacted the Editors Team about that what's really happening on the ground. Kjetil can talk about the dev process. There's been milestone label as per W3C terms.

* OO: If Solid is going ot grow, so this is candid feedback from two people that's relatively new. It is hard to join the community because of the current structure. We are in a loop.. not enough contributors -> how to contribute -> not enough contributors/commitments. What's written down.. we have an inclusivity problem.

* TBL: Are you saying that this will be solved by the new process?

* OO: The new process should help. Try something new. Iterate. Kept up to date/documented/managed. Solid community is intemediating. A lot of tribal knowledge.. or kept up to date.

* TBL: An embryonic tracker for Solid Protcol feature https://solidproject.solidcommunity.net/Specification/Roadmap/ . These are the features we have or next version and so on. Everyone can see the board on what to do with 0.9.x and so on.

* OO: We have dashboard tracking

* SC: we've been using GH's stuff which is common to most people.

* TBL: Most people in panels are concerned about day-to-day.. not the process.

* JB: Kjetil/Sarven pointed out getting support and engagement / working on it.. Oz pointed out an issue on the community being intimitating. While we have this board up for communication / helping out.. I use the CCG as example, I rarely join any meetings however I'm on their mailing list and I know what they're up to and who is up to what on the mailing list. We don't do that. I engage with them on 1% of the time. But I know what's going on.

* JB: People engage when there is stuff happening. Oz you for example product manage in ... how many of the issues on this list are relevant to your top 5-10 that you'd like to address.

* OO: Hard to say with this tool.

* JB: We have all these people participating.. even if we explained how to.. they might not care or want to engage. I was making the point of small/big items.. it is those big items that we are focusing on - this is where the discussions/relevant issues. After that it is something related to x,y,.. if that's of interest, here is what's on the way. And help them to map stuff they need.

* SC: We can generate weekly digests. We have gitter chats where people keep up with stuff... capture reality re the grunt work / day to day stuff.

* OO: I'm saying we should do additional stuff at a different level. We can get data/measure things to see if it improves. This is an iterative process. This is not full stop. Decision paralysis doesn't help... that's my concern.

* OO: We can break up the PR.
