# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2022-03-30T13:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Justin Bingham](https://justin.bingham.id/me)
* [Tim Berners-Lee](https://timbl.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)
* [Kjetil Kjernsmo](http://www.kjetil.kjernsmo.net/foaf#me)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven Capadisli


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Peg meetings to UTC
* KK: Set this meeting to 13 UTC?
* SC: https://gitter.im/solid/specification?at=6238817a9bd1c71ecab2a936
* JB: Agree. It'll keep us consistent. No matter what the fluctuations - worse is not knowing what you're adjusting against. I raised this in data-interoperability-panel and no one was against it.
* TBL: Sure. it is difficult. To set your computer to UTC you have to go to the command-line. But you can put GMT. if yo ucan put it in a calendar it'll be fine.
* KK: If the invite is in UTC, calendar will adjust.
* SC: Recommendation: Pick earlier.

ACTION: Everyone follow-up on documentation/announcements to use UTC.


### Add Solid-OIDC draft specification and primer to Solid Project
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/386

* SC: Any comments about the PR before ACTIONs?
* KK: Haven't read but will review.
* JB: I'll have to reveal. I've been familiar up to a month and a half because I mad a Java client implemntation. Part of the review I'll do next week, will look some of the changes incorporated and make sure the client implementation is inline with it. The latest draft ensures that it can support a flow where you're using in concert with authorization server ??? which I have no issues with. I don't have a ready test environment but I can make sure it works in a typical flow from an implementation standpoint. If ned be turned around this weekend, I can do this weekend.
* KK: I'm coming at it from a different perspective. I'll review with the thinking that if I understand what's there then that's good. I haven't done implementations... which I think is also an important perspective to have.
* SC: Along the lines of KK, and I'll focus more on general editorial advisement. I'll probabably won't make comments on specific technical decisions within.
* JB: General question: I don't know if this effects this in a blocking way. It might be fine but I know that CSS is in the process of adding support for some of these updates. I don' tknow if it is complete yet. I know the spec will work - testing against the Java implementation. Do we have a stance or need a stance from an implementation standpoint  - fully implemented by CSS or other open servers. There is client / server support.
* SC: I think this issue touches on that https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/19 to perhaps help us inform on interest to implement/adoption/WIP.
* TBL: I just noticed that . I was going to raise th emessage that re VC-people. They have a website.. and they don't have a current list of implementations. Any specific is good to have with implementations.
* KK: Also goes into the discussion we had with versioning. We want to have these things going to REC. To version the Solid-OIDC spec as 1.0 proper, we need those implementations. But not to publish it as a CR. When we have reviewed it, and agree to add as CR to community Reports.
* SC: The proposal is raised as an equivalen to FPWD. We may not need to weigh too much on the implementations. It is nice to have but not strictly necessary. Following PRs/releases we may put more weight.
* JB: This can be good context to include in the contributing document. Instead of recapping we can link to them.
* SC: Sounds good. I didn't hash out all the details. I also wanted to get into the kind of fields/information that must be in the spec.
* SC: Tim?
* SC: We need to resolve the versioning convention that we are going with. The current PR is CG-DRAFT. WAC is Draft, Protocol is Version 0.9.0. What else?
* TBL: I thought we came to the consens last time. KK said when a change is made the number is changed. I think it should have a version number like semver. A sort of a CR.
* KK: I tink we should also call this as a 0.9. And WAC should as well.
* TBL: They don't have to line up.
* SC: Use 1.0-{state}
* JB: We can decide to set them to 0.9 or whatever. They should be able to evolve individually. Otherwise stamping one you'll have to go to the other.
* TBL: They're absolutely not in sync.
* SC: On that note, WAC will have a new publication because most importantly the acl-link-relation is accepted to be reviewed by IANA and inclusion in the registry: https://github.com/protocol-registries/link-relations/issues/32 . Should WAC be 1.0-x?
* SC: General consensus: WAC 1.0-PR (without acl:client) and WAC 1.1-CR with acl:client
* SC: Then Solid-OIDC is 1.0-FPWD?
* KK: How about 1.0-WD.1 (1.0-WD.x)?
* SC: +1
* JB: +1
* TBL: +1

ACTION: KK, JB, SC to review PR.

### High-level spec feature road

* TBL: FYI, I wanted to get feedback on this way of thinking.
* SC: Works for me. 
