# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2022-10-19T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Wouter Termont](https://github.com/woutermont)
* [Henry Story (bblfish)](https://bblfish.net/people/henry/card#me)
* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Laurens Debackere (Digital Flanders)](https://github.com/laurensdeb)
* [Huw Diprose (GDS)](https://github.com/huwd)
* Jeff Waters
* [Tim BL](https://timbl.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)
* elf Pavlik
* Kjetil Kjernsmo
* [Matthias Evering (ewingson)](https://solidweb.me/testpro/)
* Aaron Coburn
---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Virginia


### Introductions
* HD: From the UK Government Digital Service (GDS), we ran a SOLID pilot over summer with Inrupt, now interested in tracking what's going on and getting involved where I can.

* LD: Working with Digital Flanders (Flemish Government). Excited to work on Solid and help our where we can.

* JW: Been to a couple meetings. Working on ??? - interested in contributing. Interested in showing how ??? can be done with Solid. 
---


## Topics

* SC: Please note that unless there is a decision to change the meeting datetime, it is always on UTC time (and daylight savings time is not observed as it stands).


### Agenda and Minutes

* SC: Agenda is typically PRd at https://github.com/solid/specification/ - I'll try to post them ahead of time. (Sorry about today!)
* SC: Reviews on the PR are welcome. Want to thank TallTed as usual :)
* SC: Previous meeting's minutes are at https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-12.md but you can always find prior minutes at https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/ .


### Panels, Task Forces, and Getting Stuff Done

* SC: This is part of the work to see how panels will continue or transition.
* SC: Some panel meetings are happening sporadically. The authorization-panel meeting is the only one that's currently marked as happening sporadically. Let's get the other panels to clarify their current states.


#### Authorization focused meetings
URL: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/325

* SC: It is a call to organise a new meeting slot with specific items to work on.
* eP: There is overlap between different groups. So still discussion about meetings/scheduling. There is an active discussion about ACP and WAC requirements in protocol here: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/447
* SC: not all authorization topics need to happen in that meeting alone. so that's ok. 



### Current and Former Editors of Work Items
URL: https://solidproject.org/TR/
* SC: Revisit Work Items to see what needs updating. Here is one:


#### Update authorization-ucr's editors
URL: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/309

* SC: MB showed interest and commitment. It'd be great to have another 1 or 2 co-editors.
* HS: As I am working at ??? there are people there wanting to gather use cases for that work, it'd be interesting for them to participate. I have too much work to participate, but can keep an eye on it.
* SC: Consider engaging on the issue #309 and signal your interest.
* HS: I will. 


### Server container description
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/227
* SC: issued proposed by eP. Please share considerations you had in mind which are in scope.
* eP: I have been implementing SAI authorization agent. We use containers to have a full description of the container. I am working with CSS and it is very tricky to manage this. There are two reqs in the protocol to protect the containment triples. I find it non-developer friendly. A client cannot even append triples to the server-managed triples. 
* TBL: I thought that the ability for the client to put triples into the container was different from the Unix model. Discouraging people from putting things in there is why you find it difficult to put triples in there instead of another file inside the container. 
* LD: This is a recent pull request. CSS has decided to support experimentally adding metadata. ([Documentation from the Community Solid Server](https://communitysolidserver.github.io/CommunitySolidServer/5.x/usage/metadata/)) The flow is somewhat documented on the README. 
* SC: There is an issue to correct the current behavior. Perhaps https://github.com/CommunitySolidServer/CommunitySolidServer/issues/1466

* KK: My main concern is the server will have to try and validate the input. Reject certain content. We have to rely on servers doing it right or it is a security concern. We always distinguish client managed vs server managed and not have overlap. Perhaps we should change the behavior for containers so that they are server-managed, and have a mechanism for a client to make a representation of the container in auxiliary resources. But this would be a big change. 
* AC: +1
* HS: If question is how to add metadata - that is important to have. For access control it'd be very useful to be able to set permissions based on tags - this would support use cases that we have. 
* LD: +1
* SC: Uniform interface. Allows `/` to be self-described which is orthogonal to "metadata". We've covered those UCs - majority of the Web serves something off `/` and not limited to directory listing/index' (like in Apache). We can't tell the Web that's considering to use Solid that they can't publish a homepage. Not good bootstrap IMO.
* SC: It means clients can create / but not update.. which is strange.
* eP: Don't expect to resolve this topic today. In the first week of November, I can compile initial pros/cons of both approaches and relevant use cases. We can all collaborate on that document.
* SC: Current spec allows servers to have the capability to disallow (???) updates to the container.
* TBL: NSS supports index.html so you could use any container including the root of your Pod as a homepage. In SolidOS -- on the client side only -- we use an informal convention `index.ttl`. This is where we can put information about the container. The subject of the data in the container is `index.ttl#this`.  So the file browser shows that thing as the contents of the folder, not the files in th folder.
* SC: ??? . If we talk about read/write on a resource, we cannot expect to do that on a resource and expect the changes to be reflected on the container. 
* TBL: It's a hack, but in use. 
* HS: Doesn't have to be a hack. We can simply make this implicit behavior explicit. When a container is created, LDP teaches us to specify properties about that container in the POST, so we could use the same mechanism to specify that index.ttl had a special role... One would need to invent some vocabulary for that and agree to it.
* eP: releavant old issue [Aligning representations of document and container resources with REST via single and compound state #198 ](https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/198)
* SC: if the topic is changing behavior of the container, we have issues for that. 
* KK: index.html issue is the most commented we have. Touches on many things (representation of a resource, client vs server responsibility, and so on). We should settle that discussion before 1.0. After that, we should not change this behavior. 
* eP: +1 settle it before 1.0
* SC: +1 we should start from use cases. we should not discourage use cases to make implementations easier. 
* HS: Similar issue ???
* SC: We can use input from LDP. In the LDP spec there are examples statements about non-containments being included in the container description. 
* KK: LDP is part of the source of the problem because RDF Source is defined as a resource fully represented on RDF, non-RDF not represented in RDF, so it leaves out all of the resources which are *partially* represented in RDF??? of thing not represented on RDF. We are borrowing things from LDP, but it is not an LDP thing.
* SC: Need to clarify what is in a container, and if a resource part of the same pattern is part of the container or not. 
* SC: What KK mentions is not what we have been doing in Solid. 



### HTTP Message Signatures RFC version 13

* HS: The IETF is in last call for its HTTP Message Signatures RFC version 13 with feedback expected by the 25 October 2022: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-httpbis-message-signatures/13/
* HS: bblfish has an implementation in Scala compiling to JVM and JS: https://github.com/bblfish/httpSig/tree/trackIO
* SC: Is https://github.com/bblfish/authentication-panel/blob/main/proposals/HttpSignature.md latest work?
* TBL: I am interested to see mockups of login UX flows. Where do you expect people to store their keys... If browsers have enough key management support.
* HS: I have this proposal for a [Launcher App](https://github.com/bblfish/LauncherApp), which is now also en EU project [Solid Wallet](https://nlnet.nl/project/SolidWallet/index.html). It works like this: Secure JS is downloaded from your POD so is trusted by Origin which then launches a Page of your preferred apps.  You get to see different panels for apps you use (see picture below). Apps from the web that you don't know that much can ask for an http signature (how: see [code on github](https://nlnet.nl/project/SolidWallet/index.html). This can work in two ways: 
   + one client-side as described in [authorization panel Launcher App page](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/blob/main/proposals/LauncherApp.md), 
   + the other is it can also be done via a Proxy on one's POD.  Looking for people to design the UI for it. Currently have a thing on the back of a napkin :) 
   ![back of the napkin image of Launcher App](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/124506/66335877-3485bc00-e93c-11e9-9861-b19beefea18e.png)

