# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2023-11-22T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published

## Present

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Pierre-Antoine Champin](https://solid.champin.net/pa/profile/card#me) (until 14:30 UTC)
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
* [Michiel de Jong](https://michielbdejong.com)
* Maxime Lecoq

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* elf Pavlik


### Introductions
* 

---


## Topics

### WIP Implementation Feedback


### Braid

* RG: spoke to Michael Toomim and he could do demo next week.

### Solid CG Chair Election Procedure
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/582

* RG: can you share an update?
* eP: we need candidates to step up: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2023Nov/0081.html
* PAC: we should follow up on the mailing list thread
* MdJ: i can be a candidate
* HZ: if we don't have more than 3 nominations should we still do the election?
* eP: I think Sarven's idea was to test drive it for the future generations
* HZ: i can contribute to standards but my work will focus more on the adoption and building community
* MdJ: CG chairing doesn't need to do that much, mostly facilitating and holding the space for people to have conversation. Also cultivating the plurality of the solid community. Allowing things to grow in the space. It is different from the task of spec editor.
* HZ: I'm worried that my Inrupt position would be a disadvantage here.
* eP: Hadrian I hope you will join as candidate, as well as Michiel.
* HZ: Communication between chairs will be very important.
* HZ: I'm not sure how I could help from that role more than I do now?
* MdJ: I see need to continue the Solid CG as the space where the Solid can happen. We don't need to make it more buereucratic. It is important to keep it going. 
* HZ: I go to conferences and see a lot of enthusiasm about solid there.

Open conversation about Solid adoption...

* ML: Many people tell me that Solid seemst to them only for individuals and not for the organizations.
* ML: https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/issues/813
* MdJ: The pod might be for individual and for organiatin, organization can benefit where the data is stored in user-centric way.
* 

### Special Topic Meetings
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/555

* eP: shall we setup a meeting about WG charter?

### W3C Solid WG Charter Proposal
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter

* PAC: I have two charter in working Solid & DID, DID is currently more urgent. I should get it out of the way next week and can focus again on Solid.
* ...: We should officialize retracting the charter and proposing a new one. We need to figure out the best way to work on the new one.
* ...: It should narrow the scope and make the charter less ambitious.
* ...: On the other hand we need to respond to the criticism that the solution was chosen in advance. We should make it something that will appeal to more people than just Solid CG.
* eP: ...
* PAC: Solid is many different things to many different people. Based on reponses to my mailing list thread it also seems that case within solid community.
* RG: We should focus more on emphasis on decentralization and democratizing data ownership. We should also incorporate feedback from other groups.
* PAC: Sarven is organizing meeting with a Social CG. Saying "Solid is about fixing the web" this is to much for a single working group. If we talk about decentralization there are other groups which propose solutions.
* HZ: I think that even DID came up with ready solution. The reason for not using other solutions is that they don't meet requirements. For example blockchains are centralized.
* eP: Which REST based systems are we talking about specifically?
* PAC: To Hadrian, nowadays when WG are created they are backed by strong incubation. There is a tension between having enough incubation vs just rubber stamping an existing solution. It is a balancing act. 
* PAC: In response to Pavlik, the comparision would be very interesting one to write down, opposing to those arguments. Maybe this could be a part of explaination, clearly addressing what is overlapping.
* PAC: ActivityPub is very clear existing spec. It is not limited to 'tweets', it has notion of collections and objects.
* RG: My sense is that we need to draw the boundires. Solid being based on HTTP and using Linked Data. Than we can look for comparable solutions.
* PAC: We need to both broaden and narrow the scope. Mention HTTP and RESTful APIs, Linked Data. We should explain use of RESTful APIs. Maybe also we shouldn't call it Solid.
* eP: We could clarify some non trivial use cases and compare around that
* RG: ...
* PAC: Gathering of use cases and selecting few representative use cases. Different people are trying to do different things. By gathering different use cases from different perspectives we can justify that Solid is meeting a broad range of use cases.



### Holidays break in December?

* eP: I would suggest to stop official meetings after Dec 13th and resume from Jan 3rd.
* 
