# W3C Solid Community Group: Special Topic Meeting

* Date: 2023-10-10T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* Rahul Gupta
* April Daly
* Jeff Zucker
* Tim Berners-Lee

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven Capadisli

### Introductions
* name: text


---


## Topics

### Solid CG Repository

* SC: Currently `solid/specification` is used for specifications as well as some contributing/process-like information. `solid/specification` should continue to serve as spec publication stuff for TR/ and ED/.
* SC: There are some advantages to establishing `solid/solid-cg` (or `w3c/solid`) for CG process and other CG wide documents. It may not be suitable to move some existing documents (e.g., minutes) because it breaks URLs without proper redirect, so some consideration is needed.
* TBL: Beware of moving things.  Make links and lists of links.  In general do not break things.
* SC: We'll need to find and update all back-references to anything that is referring to the old URLs at least in the solid-universe of things.

#### Rough Plan

* Create `solid/solid-cg` repository.
  * TBL: Fine.
* Copy/Move some assets from `solid/specification` to `solid/solid-cg`:
  * TBL: DO NOT move. Only copy per-repo things like CONTRIBUTING
  * SC: Okay, we can copy, and then update with links referring to the latest location
* `CONTRIBUTING.md`
  * TBL: Copy it
* `meetings/`
  * TBL: make new empty and link to old
* Under [Discussions](https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/):
  * [Self-Review Questionnaire for Chair Candidates](https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/568)
  * [Disciplinary Policy, Process, and Procedures](https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/576)
  * [Special Topic Meetings](https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/555)
  * [Solid CG Meeting Data](https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/564)
    * SC: Should deprecate in favour of [Solid Ecosystem Monitor](https://github.com/virginiaBalseiro/solid-ecosystem-monitor/)
  * [Solid CG Chair Election Procedure](https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/582)
  * [Task Force](https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/581)
* Minor: possibly other material from `solid/specification` issues/PRs.

### Solid Process

* Migrate some assets from `solid/process` to `solid/solid-cg`:
  * `solid-cg-charter.md` — used for developing the charter, where [w3.org CG pages](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/charter/) includes the latest published and effective version
  * `notifications-panel-charter.md` — possibly sunset and/or convert to task force
  * `test-suite-panel-charter.md` — possibly sunset and/or convert to task force
  * `solid-editors-tr-process.md` — needs re-review and integration in context of charter and `CONTRIBUTING`

ACTION: Create draft PR marking assets as archived and liking to new locations.

ACTION: Mark draft PR as ready to review once new locations are provided.

* Jeff: PR should make it clear that intention is to move those assets out of `solid/process` repo.
* TBL: It's good to have links in both directions; new version also should link to the previous version in `solid/process`
* Jeff: My point is about who controls the repos; people need to understand who will be in the control of new repo.

ACTION: eP to investigate [Github Code Owners feature](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners)

### Panel Repositories

* SC: Panel repos have minutes, issues/PRS, including UCR documents, surveys.
* SC: Work items should move to their own repos if they don't have one already. (Each new work item should go into its own repo.)
* SC: Use GitHub "Transfer" issues/PRs of specific work items from the panel repo to their own repo.
* SC: Leave non-work item specific / exploratory / random issues as is in panel repo.
* SC: Consider moving minutes from panel to `solid/solid-cg`'s `meetings/`? Needs to be cleaned-up — use Minutes Template, etc. — to be used by Solid Ecosystem Monitor. There may be multiple meetings on the same dates, so may need to consider directory/filename pattern.


### Solid Specification

`solid/specification`

* SC: TR/EDs that are taken up as deliverables in the WG would be frozen while WG is active.
* SC: once WG expires, there still might be work needed with errata and future work.
* 