# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2023-10-04T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Draft

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name

### Introductions
* name: text


---


## Topics


### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback or interest to implement. Links to products/projects and demos welcome.


### Special Topic Meetings
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/555

* SC: Notes from 2023-10-03 meeting?
* SC: New topic proposals welcome.


### CG Chairs Election
URL: https://www.w3.org/community/solid/charter/#chairs

* SC: More updates from W3C staff: They've stated that they can't provide staff support for CG voting - as third party - but they can help sharing configuration for OpenSTV to process the results for us. Not sure if it makes sense for PAC or TBL to get involved because they're CG participants (with W3C affiliation).
* SC: I suggested/pitched that we can use WBS to send a copy of each response to the election questionnaire to internal-solid@w3.org - readable/writeable only to CG participants (as opposed to public-solid@w3.org), and myself (and anyone else that wants to help) can do the mechanical work of processing the results with OpenSTV and in the open, and it can be verified by anyone. This would be an "open" election in that everyone can see everyone else's votes. This would be the easiest and reliable solution, but I also mentioned the importance of private/secret voting. I asked for additional options and any advisory they have because using W3C's WBS is quite useful for us as that helps us address authenticating the participants/voters first and foremost, and again, working in the same way as TAG/AB elections.
* SC: W3C staff said they'll think about it and get back to me (in a timely fashion).
* SC: As always, please update your affiliations on W3C account.
* SC: Please contribute to [Self-Review Questionnaire for Chair Candidates](https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/568) towards decision making process and rationale, as well as transparency.


//### Replace panels with breakout task forces
//URL: https://github.com/solid/process/issues/324

/> ACTION: SC to create discussion to improve contributing guide to detail how task forces are formed (in similar way to new work item proposal)


### Solid Protocol Version 0.11.0
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/milestone/7

* SC: Let's make sure to add any missing issues/PRs that can reasonably make it into this release. The ED includes class 3 and higher changes, and some in the pipeline. See [Solid Protocol ED Changelog](https://solidproject.org/ED/protocol#changelog).
* SC: Unless there is new information to discuss, I suggest we keep this topic short and only for awareness.


//### Proposal for Solid-PREP work item or task force
//URL: https://matrix.to/#/!QxZtVBYQfMeMTnespj:gitter.im/$5J52npu2Tqz1G-codb_NyJ30-bBCaCtQ2f-pRcwjg8o

//* SC: Proposed by RG.


### i18n and n11n of resource identifiers
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/575
