# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2023-02-22T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Draft

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name

### Introductions
* name: text

---


## Topics

### Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback or interest to implement. Links to products/projects and demos welcome.


### Add TR/2022/notifications-protocol-20221231
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/491

* SC: Feedback? Questions?

### Add TR/2022/protocol-20221231
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/492

* SC: Feedback? Questions?


### Milestone 0.11.0
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/milestone/7

* SC: Tentative due date: 2023-04-30.


---

* SC: To be picked up next meeting.

### Coordinating further work on authentication and authorization
* SC: Previous discussion https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2023-02-15.md#coordinating-further-work-on-authentication-and-authorization



### Shapes Reuse
* SC: "Shapes" pertaining to SHACL or ShEX.
* SC: Should we have a shared space where shapes are developed and reused? Here are some existing work and considerations:
* SC: Specifications include data modeling, e.g., https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol#data-model , https://solidproject.org/TR/wac#authorization-rule
* SC: Specifications describe Constraints and Problem Details, e.g., https://solidproject.org/ED/protocol#constraints-problem-details .
* SC: Resource servers can process write operations with shape validation.
* SC: Applications can be informed on shapes and constraints on resources, e.g., https://shapetrees.org/TR/specification/ .
* SC: Create https://github.com/solid/shapes ? There are services like https://shaperepo.com/ that we can consider to reuse or have something similar that works through Solid org / CG?


### Auxiliary Resources with own Access Controls
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/501

* SC: About time we have a closer look at this for a future milestone?


### Evaluate existing RDF delta/diff formats
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/157

* SC: Let's move this to solid/specification ?



---

### Topic Proposal
URL:

* Proposed by [name]
