# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2023-05-17T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* elf Pavlik
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)
* [Jesse Wright](https://www.jeswr.org/#me)
* Jeff Zucker
* Maxime Lecoq (last half)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Virginia

### Introductions
* JW: Currently working for Inrupt with main focus on data interoperability. Been in Solid space for about 1.5 years. I will be working with the [EWADA team](https://ewada.ox.ac.uk/) at Oxford in a few months. Got into this through semantic reasoning and that's been my main thing for a while. 

---


## Topics

## Shapes repo
* SC: Would you be interested in moving it forward in these meetings?
* JW: Yes. I am working on templates.
* SC: Would that be according to specs?
* JW: No, it would be putting commonly used shapes in applications into imec / Inrupt repository. 
* eP: There are shapes that are attached to a specification, we don't have specs attached to contacts, etc. aside from webid-profile. In the long run we need shapes that are domain specific (calender contacts, etc.), but these are not core solid protocol shapes. We should keep that distinct. We should not have business-specific shapes but only those used by specs. WebID-Profile, interop, maybe notifications, etc. There are shapes that are already defined. Business-specific shapes are needed but only backed by some implementations, so we need a different process for those that are not accompanied by a Solid spec. 
* JW: I agree that Solid shapes should be based on spec stuff. The goal of ??? is to be tied to `npm` to people can contribute/discover shapes similar to the ones in their app.
* eP: Jackson is doing some work with ShEx shapes + TS. https://github.com/o-development/ldo
* JW: Yeah, I have seen it. 


## Talks and Presentations
URL: https://2023.mydata.org/

* SC: I was asked to talk about Solid, Solid Protocol, and CG's work items. Will represent myself as chair and speak on behalf of the CG. Unless there are objections?
* SC: No objections.


### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback or interest to implement. Links to products/projects and demos welcome.
* eP: I am working on implementing support for non-RDF sources. Some nuances working with non-RDF data. Looking into storing preferred filename in the description resource. If someone is interested in feedback, I'd be open to sharing this next week and/or on the chat.


### Recommend translation guide and consistent spelling
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/509

* SC: Resolves https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/508
* SC: Recommends "Use consistent spelling throughout the document." -- essentially it is Editors' responsibility. Rationale in https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/508#issuecomment-1461883028
* SC: Any objections to merge?
* TT: General guidance is good. The challenge is knowing what any doc is using. If you're reading about something named with British spelling, and you search for other documents on that thing but they are using US spelling, you cannot find them.
* SC: For terms that are defined, those will be whatever the initial definition is. 
* TT: Let's imagine there's a function "behaviour". You want to find all instances of that function, but you have a mix of "behaviour" and "behavior". That's one way per-document consistency is easy for the editor but maybe not the project. 
* SC: So that is more about findability/searchability. If this issue would have been that significant, it would have been a requirements. 
* TT: The balance is to consider all the things and come up with the best suggestion. Manuals of Style are basically RFC "SHOULD". 
* SC: There are a lot of guidelines that are not strictly following the MoS. People have different spelling and things configure for that spelling. If we put one of these and force everyone to switch, that's maybe not the right path.
* eP: I don't think there's a need to make a political/ideological statement. It could be useful for specs/readme to express who is responsible for spelling/proof-reading, and this person should have some flexibility and freedom of choice. I think it should be a native speaker thought it doesn't have to be. 
* SC: That falls into the editor role. We can consider using `en-US` or `en-GB` as being chosen by the group and stick to it. 
* TT: A large piece of the flexibility is lower the barriers to entry. If someone wants to write documents, their flavor of English shouldn't be the barrier. I can read UK English but I might have hiccups. Same goes the other way around. Per-project (like Solid) or per-organization (like W3C) consistency makes work more difficult for writers/editors, but easier for readers. 
* VB: I don't know if picking one British or American is helpful. I think we should aim for consistency within the document itself. Part of editing and proof reading, finding those things that can be ambiguous. If there is a word or term used in US or UK, that's part of editing to be more universal. The case with "behavio(u)r" â€” I think there are other ways to handle that. Avoid using those contentious terms. I don't think it is going to be a huge thing. It depends on where you are searching, and a lot of software already handle one or the other. If not, we should avoid those terms. Name of a function, for instance. Use a synonym. Those things can be handled in different ways as part of editing or proof reading.
* SC: I don't know what GH does differentiating between different spellings.
* SC: I don't know if this PR closes the issue. The general recommendation is to use consistent spelling. The PR does not pick a standard. If it were up to me I'd say we use GB English. But I don't think it's appropriate for me to say we should use one because I prefer it, but at the same time other people have preferences and stick to that.
* TT: It might be a decision for the Great Solid Parliament. It's more challenging to decide one way and change later. 
* SC: Any objections to merging this PR? 
* SC: Could we defer this topic beyond PR or is this topic pressing? 
* eP: Given those guidelines, if someone makes a PR and it's not matching the spelling of the document, can we expect the editor to accept the PR adding a commit or do we anticipate it'll have requested changes on spelling?
* SC: I'd expect the editor to make the changes. Any readability/spelling will be adjusted by the editor without changing the essence of the information, with some expectations where there are cultural expressions specific to a place. If the author submits something with spelling not align to the rest of the document, the editor should do it or ask the author to do it. 


### Add server-content-type-payload
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/524

* SC: Add requirement for server to include `Content-Type` in messages with payload in Solid Protocol.
* SC: 3 approved reviews and other general approvals - thumbs ups.
* SC: Preview at http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/dd639ef5be43f02a6aee231f8d6185b80e2bd487/ED/protocol.html#server-content-type-payload (may need to re-trigger jump to anchor from addressbar to go to the requirement)
* SC: Any feedback or objections/clarifications? 
* eP: I already provided my feedback to clarify that it is mostly the interpretation of `HEAD` in a message that contains a payload body. Switching to the new RFC would be a separate step where the `payload body` is referred to as `content`. In a message with `payload body` in the future could be renamed to `content` but still work. 
* SC: The PR refers to a RFC 7231 that contains a payload body.
* eP: Once we move to the new RFC, the `payload body` moves to `content`. 
* SC: I was thinking of processing the whole spec where there's a reference to RFC-9110 - not just about payload but other terms too. Once we replace, we need to adjust to grammar/terms used in the new spec, which is why I didn't want to jump into that now. We have an issue for that as separate step. As for the `HEAD`, it is identical to `GET` with the exception it does not have a payload. `GET` needs to have a `content-type`; when you do `HEAD`, you will get the same header. Not in the same category because `HEAD` doesn't have payload.
* eP: Does the current wording make it clear that it also applies to `HEAD`? 
* SC: This requirement does not directly cover `HEAD` because it doesn't have a payload body, but because RFC 7231 covers `GET` and `HEAD` is equivalent to `GET` with headers. It might not apply to `OPTIONS` in the same way as `HEAD` because it that could potentially have a payload.
* TT: I'm not sure content type is inapplicable to `HEAD`.
* SC: The requirement. 
* TT: Is there any guidance for messages that do not include a payload body?
* SC: Yes, that's the RFC which says `HEAD` is exactly same a `GET` but without a payload. 
* eP: I expect `HEAD` to return content type.
* TT: I expect the same.
* JZ: I agree that we should specifically mention `HEAD` as returning content type. If not there is a gap.
* SC: There are lot of things in RFC-723x that we don't duplicate. We assume if you dive into Solid Protocol, you know the expectations. Solid Protocol only adds new information that says things with a payload MUST have content type. 
* JZ: Is there a statement that `HEAD` MUST have a content type?
* SC: No.
* JZ: I would like to see one.
* SC: There will be. RFC says `HEAD` is same as `GET` without the payload. When we add this new requirement, it ensures we get a content type in the `HEAD`.
* JZ: For people that have read both.
* SC: It is a requirement for Solid Protocol.
* TT: No guarantee that it will be observed. Why do we need to say that any response with payload must have a content type? Is that not required by RFC? 
* SC: No. It's a SHOULD. This makes it a MUST.
* TT: Why is it not a MUST in the RFC? That may inform whether Solid spec ought to use SHOULD or MUST.
* SC: It might be returning things that server is unaware of the type.
* TT: I'm pretty sure a Solid server should be used as any HTTP server. 
* SC: Resources could be available by the server - like filesystem. I'm weighing the security implications over the guesswork. Server should be sure of what it is sending.
* TT: and that's why it's a SHOULD, it incorporates security concerns.
* SC: When the server is offering a file, it needs to know what it's offering. Solid protocol is trying to be as secure as possible. 
* eP: If you read through the dependencies of specs, we can make it easier to ??? If the server knows the content type, it must include it. 
* SC: Is there an objection to merging this? 
* TT: <strike>I need to re-read.</strike> (Approved after meeting.)


### Clarify normative, tentative, new Deliverables
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/pull/28

>* PA: Yes, I will review this PR and try to get feedback from other W3C people about how to address this. I like the idea to list them as other "adopted" drafts; however, this might indicate a stronger commitment.

* SC: PR open for one month. We discussed and factored in changes. The PR is still a significant improvement. I propose we merge now prior to other reviews from W3C. PA and/or W3C Team can follow-up when new information is available.
* TT: Okay to merge from my side.
* eP: I think we can merge, and I can create an issue to capture what's not fully addressed. 
* SC: I don't think we have to create an issue. If there's a problem, PA can create an issue. Are you okay to leave it to PA to come back to it? 
* eP: I approved it. If the PR is closed, the discussion is archived. I'll create an issue to make sure we have a good strategy.
* SC: Let's leave it to PA for "last call".


### Clarify introductory motivation and background
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/pull/34

* SC: Another pass at motivation/background section integration the feedback in https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/issues/32 . Resolves issue.
* SC: 1 approved review. One general approval - thumbs up.
* SC: This is editorial. Any objections to merge?


### Scope needs to be tightly defined with narrow focus
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/issues/9

* SC: Related issue https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/issues/29 that can move to issue 9.


### Compatibility with existing implementations
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/issues/31


### Update mission
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/issues/7
