# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2023-07-26T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Draft

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name

### Introductions
* name: text


---


## Topics

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback or interest to implement. Links to products/projects and demos welcome.


### Update mission
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/issues/7

* SC: This is editorial. PRs welcome.


### Add W3C Solid CG Charter
URL: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/323

#### Raw data
* SC: 12 PR reviews and approvals, 0 requested changes, 1 comment (editorial).
* SC: 3 thumbs-up and 2 thumbs-downs emoji reactions on the original comment. Various emojis throughout the thread.
* SC: 15 commits integrating feedback from the reviews, meetings, and elsewhere.
* SC: Please review. This charter is for us.
* SC: Re: the timeline: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/323#issuecomment-1629875377 . Last call 2023-07-25. Accept/Merge after 2023-08-01.
* SC: Some open discussions as follows:

#### License
* SC: See thread https://github.com/solid/process/pull/323#pullrequestreview-1512907580 discussing MIT and W3C CLA/FSA licenses.
* SC: Current state: pending W3C guidance.


#### UI layer metadata
URL: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/323/files#r1270051384

* SC: Raised by RB.
* SC: Can others review the questions? Is this generally covered by the Scope? Should it be explicitly listed?


#### Consider updating last call and approval dates
* SC: Raised by MC that folks may be on holidays. Last call: 2023-07-25, Approval: (after) 2023-08-01 dates were proposed ( https://github.com/solid/process/pull/323#issuecomment-1629875377 ) . WT hinted at 28 days being sufficient in recent comments.
* SC: Shall we extend for another two weeks? Let's get more reviews in.

PROPOSAL: Change Last Call to 2023-08-01 and finalise by 2023-08-08.


#### Add start of effective date
* SC: Related to approval/finalisation date. The charter should include start/effective date.
* SC: Perhaps the beginning of the following month, i.e., 2023-09-01 if charter accepted in 2023-08?


### Solid Demos
* SC: Following https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2023-07-19.md#solid-demos
* SC: There is a "Call for Group updates and Technical Demos (videos)" at TPAC2023. It is suggested that we can showcase the work done in the Solid CG by creating a short video to be published on the TPAC2023 website. Videos are due by 2023-08-30. More details to follow by there is https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2023/Demos_and_Group_updates#Best_Practices_for_Recording_Videos .
* SC: So, at least two separate cases to communicate/demo: 1) general CG work, and 2) specific use cases or interests.
* SC: For the time being, I suggest everyone self-publishes their screencasts, and share the URLs with the CG. We can find a home to refer to those links. More details to follow: make sure the URL is publicly archivable by the Internet Archive for instance.


### Are URI semantics just necessary or sufficient to determine containment relation?
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/505

* SC: Would everyone like to address this in a weekly call - limited time - or move to a dedicated call?


### Proposals for Dedicated Calls
* SC: Noting here for now:
* 2023-08-08: [Alternative solutions to container HATEOAS](https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/525).
* yyyy-mm-dd: Solid Demos.
* yyyy-mm-dd: Implementer Feedback meeting.
* yyyy-mm-dd: Reorganizing github repositories [related issue](https://github.com/solid/process/issues/324).
