# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2023-09-20T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Aaron Coburn
* Osmar Olivo
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Ross Horne](https://personal.cis.strath.ac.uk/ross.horne/)
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
* Maxime Lecoq
* michal/mrkvon

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven Capadisli

### Introductions
* name: text


---


## Topics

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback or interest to implement. Links to products/projects and demos welcome.
* ML: A draft of Solid client-to-client standard for the Data Food Consortium project is published [here](https://datafoodconsortium.gitbook.io/dfc-standard-documentation/solid-client-protocol).
* ML: It covers how resources are expressed and where they should be stored. Also, a few recommendations on indexing, using DFC ontology and taxonomy. We're using type index to let the user choose where they  want to store the data.
* eP: What would you like to do â€” re-work items, or work independently and provide feedback to the CG?
* ML: Will let you know after.
* eP: I'd be interested in it as a work item. I was working on Value Flows ... so interesting for me to see client-client for business domains, how much can be specific or generalised.
* ML: Talked with Value Flows. Chose to use our own ontology for now. Will let you know. Open to discussion.


### Special Topic Meetings
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/555

* SC: A couple of items may need a date.
* SC: "Security flaws in OIDC spec" still seems important. RH was/is? engaged w/ eP, HS. Why isn't this topic more up-front and centre in issues/chats?
* SC: We have a joint meeting scheduled with WebAgents CG on 2023-09-26. Please propose topics to the [agenda](https://hackmd.io/ftVbmvj0R0Oh6EsPWTEkwQ).
* eP: There is a [dedicated issue for OIDC](https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/221). We can link to it from [555](https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/555).


### Solid Ecosystem Monitor
URL: https://github.com/virginiaBalseiro/solid-ecosystem-monitor/

* SC: View at https://virginiabalseiro.github.io/solid-ecosystem-monitor/
* SC: Now includes data/charts for Present and Scribes (due to popular demand) from minutes.
* SC: Please use name in Present/Scribes as it appears in https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/participants/ .


### Solid Protocol Version 0.11.0
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/milestone/7

* SC: Let's make sure to add any missing issues/PRs that can reasonably make it into this release. The ED includes class 3 and higher changes, and some in the pipeline. See [Solid Protocol ED Changelog](https://solidproject.org/ED/protocol#changelog).


### Solid Symposium

* RH: Solid event in March (follow-up from Solid Symposium earlier this year.)
* RH: What would work for the community in that session? If we had tracks specific for developers working on the specs?
* SC: Have people from the CG to guide/tutorial perhaps?
* RH: Sure.
* eP: ???
* RH: Details on Symposium. 2-3 May 2024 in Leuven. Mixed Industry, Academics & Developers. Chair: Bart Buelens at VITO. Previous edition is here: https://solid.ti.rw.fau.de/public/2023/solid-symposium/
* RH: Organised in tracks, so it's possible to have a dedicated track for standards, making it a focal point for meeting in Europe in May 2024. Tracks may be hybrid. Another possibility is to have a keynote speaker or two from the Solid CG community.


### CG Chairs Election
URL: https://www.w3.org/community/solid/charter/#chairs

* SC: I am looking into tooling. Trying to get support from W3C first. There are third-party tools/services, but prefer to use W3C infrastructure for simplicity and verification.
* SC: Please contribute to [Self-Review Questionnaire for Chair Candidates](https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/568). Mentioned at TPAC in [Chartering at W3C breakout session](https://github.com/w3c/tpac2023-breakouts/issues/43) ([minutes](https://www.w3.org/2023/09/13-w3process-minutes.html)), and it was well received towards WG chair selection considerations.


### Replace panels with breakout task forces
URL: https://github.com/solid/process/issues/324

* SC: https://github.com/solid/process/issues/324#issuecomment-1719720918
* SC: Any objections to merging those PRs? Perhaps update chat URLs to use Matrix (replacing Gitter)?
* SC: Status update: https://matrix.to/#/!QxZtVBYQfMeMTnespj:gitter.im/$TetcgigSzuYAAIXt_I_hU8Po3ey6NAEPrgsl2QgO14Y
* SC: webid-profile (TF) and test-suite-panel are no longer in the CG calendar. webid-profile convenes in chat before meeting. Note upcoming STM for Solid QA.
* SC: data-interoperability-panel and notifications-panel have tentative status in the CG calendar.
* RG: Do you have a timeline for when that transition will happen? Suppose I want to propose a new TF... when can I do that?
* SC: Any time, but it is lightweight with specific focus.
* eP: There is a STM.
