# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2024-10-23T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Michiel de Jong](https://michielbdejong.com)
* Grace
* Rahul
* [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
* Tim
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Pierre-Antoine Champin](https://champin.net/#pa)
* Maxime Lecoq-Gaillard
* Jeff Zucker
* Erich Bremer
* Jesse

---

## Announcements

* [ODI stewardship](https://theodi.org/insights/projects/odi-and-solid-building-a-future-where-data-works-for-everyone/) of the Solid Project
* New Matrix channel: `#solid-odi:matrix.org`

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Jesse
* Michiel

### Introductions
*

---

## Topics

### ODI Stewardship of the Solid Project
* MdJ: Which opportunities/collaborations does the ODI stewardship open up for this W3C-CG?
* MdJ: See also https://forum.solidproject.org/t/a-new-organisational-home-for-solid/8004/4
* RG: Please clarify governance structure for Solid under the ODI stewardship.
* Jesse: I'm optimistic it's going to mean exciting opportunities. Rahul, can you clarify your question?
* RG: Yes, a few things: what was great in the CG but not in the team was that we have a charter and an election. Do you have similar plans? And what happens to the current structures, like an ombudsman?
* Jesse: The short answer is the governance structure is not fully defined yet; we need to define it collaboratively. At this stage, the Solid Team itself has been dissolved, and ODI has taken over its responsibilities, like hosting and maintenance of solidcommunity.net and solidproject.org.
* Jesse: Michiel already indicated he will continue the existing plans for NSS->CSS migration for solidcommunity.net
* Jesse: Interesting that you mention moderation-related topic, I was also talking with Jeff about that. I don't know currently what form that would take. Maybe Tim has some thoughts here
* Tim: First of all, huge thanks to Jesse for stepping into this role of coordinating this community. There are some things which do not change. For instance, the terms and conditions of being a member of the community. There are lots of volunteers; they will continue. The ombudsman: in principle, the Solid Team was responsible for everything, and the system for dealing with things; we can treat things bit-by-bit, but we can keep the overall support we have in place. The culture is going to stay the same, and in line with W3C expectations.
* eP: Again, congrats for Jesse and everyone. My question is about jurisdiction and work items. There are solidcommunity.net, solidproject.org, and the forum. How would the catalog fall under that? I was also aiming to merge my dataset into that. Talking with Rahul, and Sarven has requested it as well I think, we could have some sort of aggregation services of self-published data, with webhook channels. Does ODI have something similar to CG work items? Another example: shape trees and shape repo. What are the work items and the process to propose something?
* Jesse: At the moment, only solidcommunity.net and solidproject.org. Regarding expanding those work items, there are discussions to be had. I imagine that now that the spec work has largely moved to [LWS WG](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/lws/), there is more room in [the CG](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/) to work on client-to-client spec, and such catalogs fall under that. Maybe ODI can work more on talking to governments, etc., to get the data into place. But really, the governance is not defined yet, and also depends on how much funding we can get. This is why I said on the forum, if you want support for something, tell us!
* Tim: I haven't got any thoughts constraining the governance structure. There is a website pod: [solidproject.solidcommunity.net](https://solidproject.solidcommunity.net/public/). We should track tasks in there.
* RG: Tim mentioned financing. Where is ODI raising capital? What do you intend to use it for?
* Jesse: There's not a lot defined there. I haven't even been in the ODI for that long.
* eP: We can work on different apps. We need to work on client-to-client specs.
* Jesse: Yes, I also submitted an NLnet grant request for that with Jeff.
* Tim: Yes. In the verticals, every time we write a c2c spec, on a good day we would do it by importing a mapping. For instance, vCard is easier, but FIHR is much larger. In a lot of these cases, we could talk to people from the respective verticals. Overlapping workshops between existing efforts. Tracking those relationships, making sure those people are aware of Solid. Existing external efforts will be important.
* Jesse: I know there are some questions left unanswered, I'll answer those later, in the matrix channel or on the forum.
* Tim: And it needs funding. We've applied to various people; for example, people who previously funded the ODI. One of the things the Solid community can do is try to raise the total incoming amount of grants; for example, with people like NLnet.

### Farming C2C

Maxime: At DFC, we are working on c2c specs about farming, but in fact it's even larger –> ERP systems. I would like to propose some work item next.
Michiel: I think you can just create a PR on [the work items list](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/df7cee6c4225b9cab5eedba3aec51074aeb7c067/index.html#L122)
 
 TBL: Shall we discuss it today?
 Maxime: Not today


### Error Notifications

 

https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/198

* RG: We need a unified pattern for notification errors.
* RG: You need to be able to communicate when there is an error between the resource server and the notification centre. You need to communicate it to the client, should be RDF, some discussion on GH, but wanted to bump here so that anyone with an opinion can chime in.
* Elf: We need some more specific use cases and requirements from the perspective of the client. We need to arrive at the interface we want based on who consumes it. We have already arrived at a general interface based on the fact that error was unreliable; for instance, may know that a resource needs to be re-requested if the error was unreliable. This is because the notification system knows that it could have missed some updates. If you know that there are some scenarios where you would like an error to happen, then identify what you would have liked to happen.
 * RG: I've begun that process by putting what those generic requirements might look like in terms of classes of products.
 * Elf: I've been doing webhooks in the last few months. If we are doing errors, it impacts the notification receivers, as they need to check for error messages, etc., if errors are included with notifications.

### Activity Mapping for Notifications

https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/183

* RG: Added a new column; need to revisit this. Looking at the container mappings, because this is something we need to revisit soon. The purpose of this issue was to have an [?? office hours STM??]
* eP: Should not map to HTTP Headers. Solid or LWS should define a set of operations, and the notification system hooks into the set of operations. Then there will be an HTTP interface that binds this to HTTP methods by notifications. System should not bind directly to that. Relevant to discuss in relation to access control and notification system; both should have a common layer of internal operations supported by the storage. That is something LWS may need to take care of by defining those operations.
* TBL: One tricky thing about notifications is that people generalise. People say, e.g., "don't just standardise a version of websockets", or "there is a world of notifications out there and we should model them all in our notifications". Can be unhelpful by running into the danger of assuming that there will be lots of different notification features that will have too much in common; e.g., if the user moves their mouse into a space, you'll get a notification; lots of cases where the timescales of things are very different. I hope that we have a very effective ??? & test notification systems for what I need in SolidOS, where we can update the display when someone changes something. Interested in relation to local-first and CRDTs, if you're making a CRDT you can't be ??? about it. I hope that if we are trying to make something that works both at CRDT level and at higher levels, we don't end up causing confusion. Let's make sure that notifications at one level work well, and then generalise.
* MDJ: Question about linked issue — it sounds like it's a better idea to just use what is there, rather than taking to office hours or to WG.
* RG: A lot is already implemented — e.g., in CSS — and there is already usage. But in implementation, people found underspecified cases and need clearer requirements based on those things. We need to take another specification step to iron out those details.
* eP: We have created a crdt4rdf CG; no activity yet. Next week, we plan to send out emails and start organising. Please join if you're interested. https://www.w3.org/community/crdt4rdf/
* RG: I agree mapping should be 1 step removed. In notifications, we want to make sure that we have proper security, such that if access controls are changed to a parent resource, that is properly handled when we are dealing with the person receiving the notifications (e.g., you should be able to stop those notifications from coming in). For the table, we have been iterating it, and there are a bunch of question marks there. When we are implementing, some use case comes up that we are unsure how to deal with in that moment. More about exchanging notes and making sure we are using a common format for the messages. I also agree that we should be ???
* eP: Taking some actions — fits under LWS. Is there interest from the WG to at least see if it is fitting under the work, and making sure we are coordinating that in some way?
* MDJ: I think we should go with the table that you created. If we need clarifications for some cases — then we should clarify. If there is a contradiction, then we should discuss until we agree in the CG. Let's keep working with running code, and when we run into a question like that, we shouldn't wait on the WG to give us an answer, as it will take 2 years. Should keep working on Solid as we have it, and make things interoperable on top of it. There will always be non-interoperable things in an incubator and community; we should just document when that is the case and see if it converges. We cannot even really force anybody to converge — so should start with what people build, and describe that; then the WG can look, learn from that, and come up with a spec that hopefully aligns.
* eP: The table has a column, "operation", that is not part of any existing specs — that is something where ?? and access are not defined. They need to be defined and added to spec.
* MDJ: Yes, but that doesn't contradict what I said. We just need to work with what is in this table and iterate on it.

### DST limbo warning

* eP: Some timezones will shift at the end of the month. CG meeting stays pinned to UTC.

### Special Topic Meetings


#### Summary of CRDT meeting

URL: https://wickie.invisible.college/solid-crdt

* eP: I proposed creation of **CRDT for RDF CG** please support — https://www.w3.org/community/groups/proposed/#crdt4rdf
* ep: Have discussed. Michiel, myself, Tim, Rahul, Niko from Nextgraph, Michael from Braid were present. Discussed CRDTS specifically toward RDF, and then other things (e.g., text, JSON, etc.). For this community, have followed up with people already experience with RDF CRDTs; need to follow up with people with experience with other CRDTs. Also need to prioritise which formats we want to work with beyond RDF. There will be more expertise from other efforts as well, as lots of communities have interest.
* 

#### Reminder of E2EE meeting on Nov 5th

URL: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/b277ff65-0aad-425e-bd1d-64758cd4547a/20241022T140000/
* MDJ: Was supposed to be yesterday, moved to Nov. 5

### Vocab PRs

#### Add solid:proxy to Solid Terms

URL: https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/94
* eP: My suggestion for this and the data wallet PR — we shouldn't add tests just because someone has anidea for new terms. We should only add terms that are in drafts of the spec. We had some conversations with Sarven about where the requirements should go. He put them in a comment in vocab; I don't see this as the appropriate place. We need to follow up over there to move specific requirements over to the appropriate draft. If normative, should go in a draft, not a vocab comment.

#### Add solid:Wallet for a Data Wallet

URL: https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/93
* eP: This should be used in one of the drafts, and then referenced. All requirements will be in relevant draft.
* TBL: Principle of what you should put on the ontology itself. Push back on ontology should be in draft, when the ontology should be the raw definition of the term. If you use `range`, `domain`, `foaf:account`, etc., then you know what those terms look like. So where some terms of the wallet are well-defined, you can put in things. The idea of putting the normative information in the comment — if it helps explain, that is fine — you can always kick through to the draft. If you find yourself writing comments in the turtle file, or the RDF, don't waste your expressive power — instead put them into the ontology, e.g., `rdfs:comment`. Good ontologies have comments about themselves. Put stuff in the terms where it will be useful to someone who comes across a random piece of information on the net, which some system is looking at in the future, where they can click on the predicate and see what it means.
* eP: We can follow up in PR.


#### http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/terms#updatesViaStreamingHttp2023

URL: https://communitysolidserver.github.io/CommunitySolidServer/latest/usage/notifications/#streaming-http

* eP: Possibly should have created it in `/ns/solid/notifications` instead of `/ns/solid/terms`. We can leave it under `solid:`, or I could PR it as a breaking change for CSS v8.0.0.
* eP: I'm going to make PRs to the `StreamingHTTPChannel2023` and `solid/vocab` once we decide on the final namespace
* eP: I don't have a PR yet, but in my implementation for CSS, I have a new IRI for ??? which links to ???. One doesn't have to link to notification channel since one can stream straight from HTTP. I used this relation, but maybe should have been defined in Solid notifications (`/ns/solid/notifications`) rather than Solid terms.(`/ns/solid/terms`). There will be CSS v8 which could incorporate that breaking change. 
