# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2024-06-12T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published


## Present
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Matthias Evering](https://solidweb.me/testpro/)
* [Pierre-Antoine Champin](https://champin.net/#pa)
* Erich Bremer, Stony Brook University 
* Grace Elcock
* Jeff Zucker
* Rahul Gupta
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://www.openlinksw.com/))

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* elf Pavlik

### Introductions

* Erich, Stony Brook University  in NYC. Biometric informatics. Developing a pathology management system. Interested for that development.

## Topics

### WG status

* PAC: not much to report, some questions from the TAG, will get reviewed soon enough. There was no security review on the previous charter. We are asking for a security review.
* HZ: anything we can do at this point.
* PAC: the ball is on their side. Make sure the ball keeps rolling.
* PAC: Hard to say how much longer it will take. Still optimistic. Wouldn't risk giving an estimate. Hope by the end of June.

### TPAC Meeting

* VB: Our selected slot was not available so the meeting was moved to [Thursday September 26th at 18:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=9&day=26&hour=18&min=0&sec=0&p1=783&p2=37) 
* eP: can we add it to the Solid Calendar
* PAC: I think it'll be added automatically

ACTION: HZ to follow up and make sure it gets done

* PAC: I have an issue, as I already have a number of conflicts. If other people wish to move it, I'd be in favor of that; Friday would be better for me. This is the 2nd slot in the morning, maybe move it even earlier.
* eP: Can we do a doodle to find a spot? Share the result with organizer to get maybe a second option.

ACTION: PAC to create a doodle.
  â†’ https://evento.renater.fr/survey/solid-cg-meeting-at-tpac-2025-oat4znsh

* PAC: do we put all slots, or filter first?
* eP: prefer to add all and filter later
* PAC: maybe give a deadline.
* VB: (following minutes but cannot join): Our options are limited to what's available. Event will be added automatically to our calendar. Our first option of Monday was not available. Tuesday was not good for some people. Feel free to add all slots and we can ask what's possible but deadline was June 10th to submit, so our choices might no longer be available at this point. Let me know and I'll check. 
* eP: sharing with the group what VB is writing.
* PAC: we're past the deadline anyway
* eP: 48 hour should suffice. we cand send list mail and @room mention on matrix (any chair can do it)
* HZ: agreed 
* VB: Perhaps focus on Thu and Fri, since we already know Mon and Tue don't work. 

### initial WebID Document considerations

URL: https://github.com/solid/security-considerations/pull/9

* HZ: Jacopo is no longer a chair of WebID CG, not sure how it impacts Solid
* eP: Solid Team Meeting a week ago; JZ, VB, MDJ present. What are the criteria for accepting a proposal? For me, it should not conflict with the Solid Protocol. Nobody showed me any problem with conformance. Discussing countermeasures for attacks. My impression is that sometimes we put too much in one PR. If someone thinks something more needs to be added, they can create a new PR. IMHO, this PR is ready to merge. If later we decide we want/need more normative requirements, it can be changed.
* JZ: I object to this PR. We have nothing in place to describe what a WebID document does. I agree that we need to take security into account, and keeping WebID docs outside Solid servers is a valid option. Recommending that without anything else in place is only going to create a mess. I think it's premature to start talking about where it leaves without first describing what a WebID doc is. There is no consistency.
* eP: I am aware of WebID Profile draft. Not ignoring that this work exists. WebID Profile spec is not completely useless if WebID is stored outside Solid. I have this diagram (screen shared). Solid Protocol has a normative reference to the WebID spec. I think we agreed last week that we need to agree about discovery, make parts public, some protected, but we're not there yet. I have my WebID Document outside the Solid storage. It's a well established practice.
* JZ: I am not trying to prevent people from having their WebID Document outside Solid storage. I tried for 6 months to add a predicate for allowing a WebID Document to be stored outside Solid. I think the content of WebID Document should be established first. Discovery is important. I don't want to discuss it later. That extends the period of ambiguity for developers.
* eP: there are already at least 2 methods: SAI, and Type Indexes (TIs). This PR proposes a valid method. I think we have to have a method to separate concerns. I agree it took to long. I recognize the issue, but I don't think it's fair to block this PR. If you have a different option, please make a PR; you can make it an option, WIP, and I am happy to add another option. I don't think we can wait to add a countermeasure to a known security issue.
* JZ: Sarven and VB have similar objections to mine. If you can convince all of us, OK, but you didn't do that yet.
* eP: Maybe vote next week, try to reach consensus. <strike>SC and</strike> VB does not host WebID Document in a Solid server.
* TT: I think it makes some sense to divorce the WebID doc from storage in a Solid server. Nothing says that you MUST use WebID as the identification method. Focusing on WebID puts roadblocks in our way. It's the only one listed, but it doesn't say it MUST be used.
* eP: There was some conversation about using DIDs. I think it's opening a big can of worms. All implementations currently use WebID. If we want to use something else too, we should provide such examples.
* TT: DIDs certainly are a possibility. Security concerns should go againt WebID, not against Solid.
* eP: It's not explicit to WebID; it's related to Solid's reliance on WebID. An attacker could inject something into the WebID Document and thereby get access to your data.
* TT: bad connection.
* TT: there is a circular reference. 
* HZ: I agree that it should be a priority, but we are also deviating from the topic. I also understand Jeff and it is also a priority. I also agree with Pavlik that what Jeff requests shouldn't block that PR. How do we move forward?
* HZ: Jeff, Is it a strong objection or preference?
* JZ: I think Sarven and Virginia should be present. Some concerns need to be addressed.
* HZ: Do you agree that it is orthogonal to your issue?
* JZ: No I don't agree
* HZ: From architecture point of view I agree with Pavlik. If you store WebID document on the Solid Pod, if pod is not available the webid document is also not available. But I'm not going to die on that hill.
* JZ: There are 50k pods on solidcommunity.net those people and those pods I'm concern about. It is not orthogonal. There is an existing situation of knowledgable people having WebIDs out of the Solid server. At minimum Sarven and Virginia need to be present.
* HZ: I agree with all of you, let's take it offline.
* Ted: One of the challenges I had in PR9, the structure of the document needs to be more consumable and actionable. There is a blur between weaknesses and how to address them. The countermeasures are at the same level as the weaknesses. One is a theft of the token, there is another with theft of the credentials. There should be weakenss, attack and countermeasure that prevents it. And considerationsa about that weakenss. 
* eP: It will be easier to structure based on more than one weakness.
* HZ: I see more thought about infrastructure and not only focus on p2p


---
* VB (following minutes but cannot join): Voting does not necessarily help with consensus. The issues with the PR are not objecting to the security consideration per se, but more seeking to add considerations with the approach. I am not opposed to hosting webid outside solid storage (obviously), but this PR seems to advocate for *not* hosting it on Solid storage, which is a strong message. I think we should look into how to securely allow to host. Happy to discuss next week / in another meeting. 
* VB: See: https://github.com/solid/security-considerations/pull/9#issuecomment-2155333752 on how to move forward.


Meeting ends

### N3 eligibility for being a normative reference in W3C WG deliverable


URL: https://solidproject.org/TR/protocol#normative-references
URL: https://w3c.github.io/N3/spec/

> https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/issues/37#issuecomment-1580600098
> PAC: I think I remember @timbl talking about this not so long (during a Solid CG meeting??): as I remember, he was explaining that W3C RECs can depend on things that are one step behind in terms of maturity, precisely to make the co-evolution of standards more agile. I could not find anything about this in the current W3C process, though... But @csarven's example above shows there are precedents.

* eP: We should clarify ASAP if N3 can be used as normative reference in Solid WG deliverables. If it can be no more than one step behind in maturity, we need to confirm whether it is planned to be picked up by a WG in the near future and plan accordingly.

### Proposed Work Item â€” Organizations

JZ: My prior work on organizations in Solid includes a dozen or so demos, blog posts, and GitHub discussions going back to 2021.  These efforts led to my role as lead of the Solid Team task force on converting solidproject.org to being generated from RDF. Denis Shirshov and Daniel Bakas have joined me in that task force.  At the suggestion of TimBL, I created the [`solid/organizations` GitHub repo](https://github.com/solid/organizations) with the eventual goal of developing a shape for organizational WebID profiles, similar to the one he is creating for personal WebID profiles. I will be proposing a new solid vocabulary specific to organizations and their resources, then developing shapes that use that and other vocabularies and eventually a possible client-to-client spec based on those. I would like the assistance of the CG in involving more people in this process and in deciding where on GitHub this should live.  My thinking is that we use [`solid/organizations`](https://github.com/solid/organizations) for discussion and development of the vocabulary and shapes, and as the home of the client-to-client spec.  The vocabulary, when ready to be proposed, would live in [`solid/vocab`](https://github.com/solid/vocab).  But I am open to suggestions.

### Demo of solid efforts directory

URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/632
URL: https://elf-pavlik.github.io/solid-efforts | https://github.com/elf-pavlik/solid-efforts
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/557#discussioncomment-6802365

* eP: Over the weekend, I handcrafted a small dataset with initial information about people, drafts, and implementations. Based on that data, I'm making a very simple web app that attempts to show how things are related by presenting them as linked tables, and allowing navigation through them. The dataset will be incrementally more inclusive and open to PRs.

![image](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/BJRJkFEH0.png)
![image](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/HJeNOmDSA.png)
![localhost_3000_ (1)](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/r1_yqpHHA.png)

* SC: While I appreciate the enthusiasm behind "Solid Efforts", I find it disjoint from existing efforts in the Solid community where the underlying data is actually authoritative (source) and structured (and queryable), e.g.:
  * Solid Technical Reports: https://solidproject.org/TR/
  * Solid Project's listings of servers and implementations, e.g., https://solidproject.org/apps
  * Solid QA: https://solidproject.org/ED/qa
* SC: Whereas manually created (opinionated) data duplicates data/efforts and will definitely have errors and cause unnecessary further confusion.
* SC: So, I'd recommend putting energy into improving data quality (and structure/semantics) at *source*, and building applications using that data.
* SC: Some of the technical reports can already be serialized in RDF, so they can be consumed/reused in a variety of ways. (That's partly what Solid QA is doing.)
* SC: Information on verifiable implementations have to do with Solid QA.
* SC: See SPARQL queries demonstrating what can be gleaned at the snap of a finger from source: 
  * https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2024Jun/0002.html
  * https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2024Jun/0007.html

### STM new meeting time
* VB: I can no longer join on Tuesdays before 17:00 CET. Would be nice to change to another time, but not sure what's suitable. Options? 

