# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2024-12-04T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Draft

## Present
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Jesse Wright
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Michiel de Jong](https://michielbdejong.com)
* Maxime Lecoq-Gaillard
* Rahul Gupta
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://www.openlinksw.com/))

---

## Announcements

* [Solid World](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/solid-world-2024-tickets-827616191307) this Wednesday. 
* Solid Practitioners [presents ActivityPods](https://forum.solidproject.org/t/come-learn-about-activitypods/8317) Thursday.
* Solid Wallets [Hackathon](https://www.inrupt.com/event/solid-hackathon/home) sponsored by Inrupt starts next Monday.
* [FOSDEM](https://fosdem.org/2025/) Feb. 1-2
* [State of open con](https://sessionize.com/state-of-open-con-2025/) - London conference on Open Source, Data and Hardware. Timed to be immediately after FOSDEM on Feb 4-5.

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Jesse Wright

### Introductions
* none

---

## Topics

### Removing fixed STM slot from the CG calendar
https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/b277ff65-0aad-425e-bd1d-64758cd4547a/

* eP: It hardly ever happens and if it does we schedule it ahead, sometimes using an online scheduling poll.
* HZ: Agree it rarely happens, but don't see harm in leaving it
* eP: I expect to need to ignore the calendar event â€” and so am likely to miss when it actually happens. Let's only add when it happens rather than keep a ghost slot.
* HZ: Understand ePs points, but if not in calendar, it is not going to happen. If removed, we should have alternative process for organising STM in advance.
* eP: New process could be people propose STM in CG meeting, and chairs organise scheduling for it.
* HZ: Let's cancel it for now, and add to CG agenda recurring item for STM topic proposals.
* JW: +1
* MDJ: +1
* eP: +1
* HZ: Ok, done.

### WG and use cases collection
URL: https://github.com/w3c/lws-ucs/issues

* HZ: Have created first templates; need to work on the styling. Still please propose use-cases, user stories, whilst I am working on styling.
* eP: I plan to create access delegation use cases. Sebastien and Laurin from ActivityPub and Niko from NextGraph want to work on collective storage; delegation is a powerful way of doing this. Will take another 1-2 weeks with them to clarify and ground the use case.
* HZ: I've worked on a similar problem in the past. The solution we used was similar to GitHub with groups and organisations. Groups never do anything; they always delegate to a person to do something.
* JW: I am getting resourcing to help write up use cases. Some will go to converting SolidOS roadmap items into use-case write-ups. Reach out to me if you need support in writing up use cases.
* HZ: Yes I do need resourcing for writing up use-cases. There are lots of attack vectors that we need around authentication.
* eP: WAC already has group support but is naive. I will refer to existing experience specs in my write up.
* HZ: Please write up many user stories in doing this. This ensures better coverage of different cases.

### Co-chair candidates

* HZ: We now have only one candidate (eP), does MDJ want to make decision now.
* MDJ: Officially we need to wait until tommorow afternoon. I don't expect self-nominations in that time frame. If no one else self nominates Han has noted that he is happy for the spot to go to eP. eP has the spot if no one else nominates by tommorow afternoon.
* RG: Formally you need a meeting where candidates present themselves.
* MDJ: Presentation meeting was done last week. But makes sense to take actual decision in next weeks CG meeting.
* HZ: Agreed.
* eP: Han wants to do outreach, we should make effort to support him with those goals.
* HZ: Han has already been contacted to do this.

### Transitioning from Code of Conduct Committee to an Ombuds
* JW: ODI has resources to do Ombuds activities.
* ...: we have a solid-ombuds@ email
* ...: we'll be using w3c coc to enforce it
* ...: wanted to see if there any thoughs or concerns or feedback
* RG: will there be a process for selecting an ombuds going forward, how do you see that happening.
* JW: right now an employee, not involved in the community. There is the conflict that exists, by JW being employed by ODI
* ...: if there are issues arising from this (not anticipating that), than a seclection process for a non ODI ombuds being selected.
* RG: I'd like to see someone with legal training. It's a hard role.
* JW: understood. The ODI exec team has that level of knowledge and capability. An escalation process will be in place. If we need this to be a legal person long term, this will be revisited once more funding are in place.
* HZ: I agree, having employee of ODI is good since we don't depend on volunteers, this should ensure getting things done. We don't have CoC issues for quite some time.
* eP: Mentioning a CoC related situation in Solid Practicioners

### Governance of Solid
* JW: percursor to a conversation that will be brought to SolidWorld. There are questions about how ODI will interact with the community and governance of the infrastructure. ODI is trying to build a structure simiar to LF or OWF. We have questions about sponsorhip and funding. We plan to have a consulation period from Jan-Mar next year. We'll try to have some kind of interim structure in place by the start of Jan so that we're not left with a deadlock. If you have any thoughts about governance, now's the time to share.
* HZ: New LF governance is modelled after Apache, which I think is a good model. Brian Behlendorf is a founder of Apache and is the CTO of OWF, lots of cross pollination there. Important part of ODI transition is to help make stuff happen. Apache helps make stuff happen even though Apache does not fund development. Everything ODI needs should be brought to this group. ODIs responsibility is also increasing awareness and adoption of the spec.
* eP: I was assuming that we were using free GH, are there any private repo.
* HZ: No, but work to manage permissions etc. is not free.
* JW: Thank you for all the offers of support, we will appriciate all of it. Github hosting is free, there are some paid Netlify services for the webiste.

### E2EE

* MLG: Did Inrupt already work on storage E2EE? It's easy to imagine to use a symetric key for the owner but it can't be used to share an encrypted document with others.
* HZ: Yes Inrupt has, I don't know how much is public. This kind of stuff should also be made a user story for LWS spec; even if group does not want to add E2EE they have to justify why not.
* eP: I see MLG is already on dedicated Matrix channel. The ANU (Australian National University) SII folks already use E2EE and presented how they do it, as did NextGraph. From my current understanding it is a complicated topic when you have group access, e.g. with key rotations. NextGraph appears to be more advanced than the ANU SII folks.
* HZ: Notion of addresses is not well understood, when you share you should share an address not an identity.
* HZ: Should this be captured in use cases?
* eP: Yes - am encouraging / coordinating with NextGraph to do this
* HZ: This is great, it is, however, on us to make sure that the use-cases (https://github.com/w3c/lws-ucs) are good in terms of coverage and quality.

### ERP c2c protocol

https://github.com/solid/erp

MLG: I renamed "Enterprise" to Goods/Services Provider (GSP). Some people had concerns about the enterprise word. Is-it better now? The new version also splits the work into 3 specs:
- Solid ERP: to define ERP use cases;
- Solid GSP: to define a GSP;
- Solid Goods and Services: to define products and services.

MLG: Would it be possible to create a Gitter chat channel for this work item? I have asked Jeff to create this.
HZ: LWS has a glossary of terms, I will add this there.
JW: What do you need to define, flows, data shapes?
MLG: Client-client standards, so shapes and flows
eP: It is quite early, I hope we don't go in the direction where chat is going where there are special URL paths etc. which impose constraints on resource locations. We need to evolve app interop specs to converge over time.
HZ: C2C should not be developed in LWS, but LWS user flows should incoroperate them so they can be supported by LWS spec.

ACTION: Continue c2c discussion next week.

Admin:
HZ: Happy holidays, some calls may cancelled in coming weeks
eP: Solid World in 1hr.

