# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2024-01-24T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* Aaron Coburn
* Maxime Lecoq
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Tim Berners-Lee
* April Daly
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Michiel de Jong
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://www.openlinksw.com/))

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Aaron Coburn


### Introductions
* name


---

## Topics

### CG Admin

* VB: The chairs will follow a rotation with a table so that participants are aware of the schedule

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* VB: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback or interest to implement. Links to products/projects and demos welcome.
* ML: Began creating Solid authentication and resource server, including PR on Solid-OIDC. Difficulty using the Solid community server or the `solid-authn-js` client from Inrupt because they do not support authorization via UMA. It would be nice to have a library for Solid authentication.
* ML: This is part of a the Data Food Consortium project (a standard about short supply chain and agriculture), trying to get partners (platform like Open Food Network or Socleo (FR)) to "adopt" Solid: being compatible at some point. I would like to make/transcript the DFC standard into Solid client-to-client standard(s).
* eP: https://github.com/inrupt/solid-client-authn-js/issues/3181
* eP: https://github.com/CommunitySolidServer/CommunitySolidServer/issues/1154

### Solid-OIDC PR Fix Primer token references and details
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pull/230

* Proposed by Maxime Lecoq
* ML: Waiting for acoburn and jaxoncreed to merge.
* eP: After this update we will need a new published version of (at least) the primer

ACTION: acoburn to review

 
### Special Topic Meetings
* VB: WIP board: https://github.com/orgs/solid/projects/16/views/1
* VB: Some issues: revisited topics, linking issues to title or not, status. 
* VB: Nothing scheduled for next week. Please propose topics in chat
* VB: When topics are revisited, the calendar arrangement doesn't give sufficient visibility over specific issues
* eP: propose that we have a separate tracking board and meet next week during the special topic meeting. A roadmap view might be useful for this
* ...: this would be a meta-topic meeting for project management

#### Feedback from last week's STM on Access modes
* Proposed by eP
URL: https://hackmd.io/@solid/ByPmZZ4KT
* eP: Summary (screen share)
* ...: Access modes and corresponding issues in the protocol
* ...: The WAC repo has a table describing how these modes map to operations
* ...: Similar table mapping modes to error responses
* ...: Non-normative mapping in WAC spec
* ...: RG is mapping HTTP methods to notifications
* ...: eP is suggesting that we have a clear mapping in the Solid protocol
* ...: this would mean that changes wouldn't require changes in many different places
* ...: some notes in the scratch pad (link ???)
* ...: identified several ambiguous cases (e.g., updating description of a container) [in general, container management is a pain point in Solid]
* SC: (context) a lot of the tables came from implementation experience, leading to updates to specifications. There may be some lingering errors; implementation reports would be very useful
* ...: Some of that information could bubble up into the Solid protocol. Will need to consider how those tables match the existing Solid API
* ...: The protocol uses "read/write/append" terminology. Perhaps that terminology can be improved. Can others (esp. implementers) arrive at the same conclusion?
* TbL: if this is a big job (to review the spec like this), perhaps the spec should just contain a table. This is important because this affects interoperability across servers (e.g., chat with append). Append functionality is important; consistency is important. In short, the table or similar should be in the spec document.
* SC: We did consider adding the tables directly into the spec, but the spec should also be able to tell you independently
* ...: re: Append, if there are strange or unintuitive behaviors, they could be resolved in the authorization mechanism or in the Solid protocol (e.g., if an agent has `append-only`, changing the description of a resource; e.g., `PATCH` cannot allow creating a resource; `PUT` requires `Write`, but `PATCH-to-create` does work for `append-only` operations)
* ...: `PATCH` RFC says `PATCH-to-create` is a `MAY`, but the Solid protocol says `PATCH-to-create` is a `MUST`
* RG: suggestion: it might be useful to start a primer with this table in a separate document. This references several different specifications: access control, protocol, etc. This would allow us to bring together this information in a way that is hard with several different protocols
* eP: Another question is, where do access mode definitions belong? They are currently in WAC and ACP. This is also used in SAI and Inrupt's Access Grants. Not all of those want normative dependencies on WAC. If these are more universal access modes, they could be defined independently of WAC (e.g., in the Protocol spec)
* ...: For `PATCH-append`, one can add alternative statements. For example, add another triple with the same subject and predicate (and different object value). Perhaps there could be cardinality constraints on the resource
* ...: Or each statment is its own resource
* ...: If `Append` is used for creating a new resource in a container, perhaps "`Create`" is a better terminology. Since `append` currently is used for both `create` and `update`. A different term would allow us to not overload these terms.
* TbL: I do not want to change the terms defined in WAC. They have been around for a long time. `Append` on container means `create`, `append` on resource means `update`, which is logical, especially in the context of the larger graph
* ...: These are concepts and URIs that users and developers see and it is important for them to be consistent. Concept of `append` is used not just by WAC
* VB: We will likely need more time to discuss this
* SC: if the use cases allow someone to allow something to a container, `Append` is perfect for that (e.g., `POST`). If someone has `append` on a container, using `PATCH` will allow someone to change the description. If we were to eliminate that, we would need to say something about that in the Protocol or in the access control system. This in itself doesn't require defining new access modes.
* VB: can we agree to revisit next week
* TbL: the fact that we allow people to store random triples on a container is something I've never used. Agree that there are inconsistencies there. Perhaps we should consider removing that facility. Let's continue this discussion next week

ACTION: VB will add this topic for next week

### CG Call Frequency
* MdJ: We could consider having fewer and lighter plenary CG calls, in favour of more in-depth work meetings on specific work items, and moving spec PR reviews into either async for small ones or STMs for bigger ones (then also requiring the STM to write its conclusions into the issue it was about).
* ...: CGs are often where different implementers come together to build a technology
* ...: the specification work is split between the CG and the (yet to be formed) WG
* ...: it is important to make our apps interoperable. In the weekly CG meeting, there is a big focus on specs, and I would like to propose that we use this weekly call as more of a weekly plenary
* ...: more demos, more discussion, less spec PR discussion
* ...: perhaps a rotation: one week is demos, one week is spec PRs, one week for roadmap (e.g., topic proposed by eP)
* TbL: this sounds good. can we talk about relationships between Solid and nearby projects? (e.g., DWEB, exports: sync with external services iCloud, Google)
* SC: There is a PR about workspace selection. For CGs, there is a rough understanding that they take on issues in the incubation space
* ...: historically, we have always had a space for implementation and demos
* ...: we should be careful not to overstep what other groups take on. If/when WG is formed, the CG shouldn't reproduce what the WG is doing. Similar for developer experience
* ...: No strong point on meeting structure. We used to have panels, and over time we didn't have the numbers to keep those topics alive
* ...: Would like the weekly mtg to stay, allows us to welcome people to the group and help them navigate their way into Solid
* ...: If we can grow the other meetings (e.g., special topic meeting), that would be great, but even there the numbers are not there
* VB: we do have demos every week in the CG meeting. Want the agenda to be a collaborative thing. Want to maintain the Wed CG meeting, wouldn't want to change the frequency or topics
* eP: What Michiel is talking about touches on the next STM. The practitioner meeting (MON) is great for demos and use cases
* ...: also the test suite and QA, for interop, test suite, it is important to leverage that in CG meetings
* VB: +1 on QA.
* TbL: when proposing the agenda as a PR, I find that hard to process. It would be more reasonable to do something similar with (e.g.) Google docs. Especially for reading the agenda on a mobile device

### Show some use cases on the "About" page of the solidproject.org website
URL: https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/issues/813

* Proposed by Maxime Lecoq
* ML: We already indicated ([in this PR](https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/pull/814)) that Solid can be used for groups (the home page was only referring to individuals before). The idea is to show that Solid can be used for organisations, governments, and for the data space ecosystem.
* ...: For instance, at [Startin'Blox](https://startinblox.com/) we received feedback from people of the data space community (like [Gaia-X](https://gaia-x.eu/), [IDSA](https://internationaldataspaces.org/)) who were wondering how Solid work for their use cases. I'm not an expert on Data Space but it looks to me that some of their uses cases (like contracts) can be "implemented" in Solid (using client-to-client standard).
* ...: I would like to know if this idea of showing some use cases "how can we do this or that with Solid" is a good idea or not? I think there is a lot of funding in this area in Europe at the moment.

### Add Workspace selection guidance
URL: https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/pull/16

### Add guidance for maintaining clean git history with squash
URL: https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/pull/15

### Add security consideration for serving user-created files
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/598
* VB: Some new clarifications from Otto on the issue.

### Clarify requests with N3 document in server-representation-turtle-jsonld
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/608

### Release 0.11.0 Milestone issues
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/milestone/7
* VB: Want to know what the status is on some of these issues what is needed to move forward. 

#### Specify container description
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/227

#### Server Description
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/355


### Should Solid (storage) servers support "RDF documents" containing multiple subjects (or quads)?
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/610

* SC: Chairs, can you use "status" labels, e.g., "waiting for commenter"
* SC: I think this issue can be closed but if there is anything, it should be broken up into specific questions/issues to follow up. I'd like to hear from ML on what needs further clarification or request...
* ML: Sorry, did not take the time to review deeply and answer yet. 

