# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2024-04-10T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published


## Present
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Rahul Gupta
* Maxime Lecoq-Gaillard
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://www.openlinksw.com/))

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* elf Pavlik

### Introductions

* [name]

---

## Topics

### Co-chairs Rotation Schedule
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/618

* hz: Just a reminder.

### Special Topic Meetings
URL: https://github.com/orgs/solid/projects/16/views/1


### WG Charter Update

* hz: none today


### WIP Implementation Feedback

### Discussion #555
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/635

* HZ: Virginia marked #555 as `archived`, I think this issue can be closed
* HZ: no objections, will close
* RG: what about 635? let's ask Ted what he needs done
* HZ: let's wait for Ted

### WG Charter

#### Tantek's feedback re 2 / 3 chairs
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/issues/66

* VB: PAC, any status update on this?
* HZ: I don't think is up to them (AB?) to decide how the W3C team selects it's chairs
* HZ: I don't think it's up to the CG; we don't need to deal with it
* RG: PAC is not here
* eP: let's better wait for PAC


#### Add Explainer
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/issues/52

* VB: Can this issue be closed given reference to *an explainer* in https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/blob/004ba63e1b76715a4c72b5d6147c9eca6a9c7ee5/charter/index.html ?
* RG: I asked Tim to also do explainer for client-to-client specs.
* RG: I shared the current explainer with various communities and the client-to-client part was hard to explain.
* HZ: since it is out of scope for the WG, should we just mention that eventually this will be requried?
* HZ: I can reach out to the Solid team asking for the status.

#### Clarifying "Achieve Them" in Deliverables Section
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/issues/45

* VB: If no proposal to improve, can we close this issue or do you prefer to wait for a PR?
* eP: More confortable if PAC handles this and everything WG charter related. He can ask us for help whenever needed.

#### Does the value come from the protocol or the applications?
URL: https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/pull/71

* eP: More practical to leave it to PAC

### New Work Item C2C: Project Management
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/641

* eP: see also https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/554
* HZ: I was looking at contacts and it doesn't look very active. I'm afraid that we are starting work items which are going nowhere.
* RG: I think the question is, is there someone to work with Pavlik to work on it?
* MLG: I see two levels of interop. The client-to-client ??? . The other one is generic interop, where two apps from two different domains can interop.
* eP: There is also overlap between the domains, we don't have hard boundries in real life and there is always interweaving.
* HZ: is it Solid CG or contrib? I think CG is too general.
* RG: what do you see the scope of CG? It seems protocol related work.
* TT: it sounds like you ask for a task force within CG.
* eP: if we already have SAI and type indexes, I agree with having a new repo for that. I will create a PR to the shapes repo; we don't need a full spec. This will allow us to validate our assumptions. I will build on top of SAI.

ACTION: eP to make PR to https://github.com/solid/shapes

### Partial contact information sharing
URL: https://github.com/solid/contacts/issues/5

* eP: [ranting about access control and resource level assumption]
* RG: One can mint a new URL. I'm skeptical about sub-resource access control. Even TrinPod assigns a URI to each triple.
* eP: [ranting more about lack of process to evaluate proposals agains use cases]

ACTION: HZ to add STM for how we work with use cases & requirements, and evaluate proposals based on that

### Proposal for integrating DIDs into Solid
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/629

