# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2024-07-17T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published


## Present

* Hadrian Zbarcea
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
* Willem Datema
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Matthias Evering](https://solidweb.me/testpro/)
* Grace Elcock
* Rui Zhao

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes

* elf Pavlik

---

## Topics

### TPAC: Call for Group updates and Technical demos (videos)
> We invite your group to create a video (or more) to be featured on the TPAC24 website at https://www.w3.org/2024/09/TPAC/group-updates.html
This is a great opportunity to showcase your work, share updates, and present technical demos of your latest advancements to the wider W3C community.
Drawing from our experience, we have compiled a set of best practices to help create impactful videos:
https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2024/Demos_and_Group_updates#Best_Practices_for_Recording_Videos
For reference, please have a look at the TPAC 2023 videos: https://www.w3.org/2023/09/TPAC/group-updates.html


* HZ: Does anybody plan to be present or prepare a demo? 
* eP: Is it part of the breakout session?
* HZ: I think the videos can be seen outside of the session. 
* eP: I have some videos for SAI, so I can prepare some short videos; will look at the guidelines. 
* HZ: Please let me know if I can help.
* eP: I can do it as an individual but open to do it as shared CG effort. 
* RG: What is the plan of CG or Solid team? What will be the structure of this session? I can update work on notifications. If the plan is to talk about administration, it probably will not fit.
* HZ: I don't think it is decided how we will run the session. I imagine a lot of conversation will be around future of CG and WG. Last year, there were a lot of conversations. If we have videos, they will be mentioned during the session. This way people will have a chance to ask questions. In the end, I don't know and this is not just up to me. I'm not sure if I will be there in person.
* RG: Can you have a chat with Solid team?
* HZ: Next meeting will be the 2nd week of August.
* RG: I don't know if you have a chair for this session appointed.

ACTION: HZ to find out who will chair the TPAC meeting


### WG status

* HZ: AC vote is not scheduled yet, even though TAG has approved the charter. Vote will probably start in September. 
* GE: Do you have any more news on WG? Did someone speak with PAC?
* HZ: I didn't. I know that Aaron and Eric have regular meetings. From what I know, PAC expected TAG review to end in June, and that happened.
* HZ: Tim should know, since he should receive notifications. I assume that people might be on vacations/holidays. 

### Open topic

* eP: I think Solid might miss something equivalent to a Project Manager role.
* RG: There are projects in the community that have no maintainers. We need a plan to make sure these things get maintained. Financing is another aspect to talk about. One idea is to have some sort of Solid Foundation.

