# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2024-08-07T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Virginia Balseiro](https://virginiabalseiro.com/#me)
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
* Jesse Wright
* Fred Gibson

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Virginia Balseiro
* Sarven Capadisli


### Introductions
* name


---

## Topics

### Reminder about TPAC demo videos

* VB: The deadline is August 30th.
* VB: I have shared the guidelines in previous meetings.
* SC: I'm interested in making a demo video on dokieli. I can make something simple about protocol, basic read-write, saving, sending a notification. Covers a number of use cases already. Would that be acceptable for the group or should I change something? The idea is to cover what the group has been up to, and dokieli covers a bunch of those things with a few clicks.
* VB: There are time limits, 2 min per demo, 3 min for group update. https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2024/Demos_and_Group_updates#Best_Practices_for_Recording_Videos
* SC: An example from my end could be even 30 seconds. 
* eP: I understand why the demo should be 2 minutes, there is no limit to how many we can submit.
* VB: Yes.
* eP: We can have one group update and coordinate.
* VB: Yes.
* GH: I can update on notifications but reluctant to make a video. 
* VB: I can help. Let's coordinate.

### W3C Groups Community Survey

* VB: FYI

> For the first time, W3C is conducting a community-wide survey. We want to get to know our community better, investigate needs, and understand our communityâ€™s vision of how we fulfill our mission for the world-wide web.
This survey is being run through Typeform, an online survey platform that supports all major operating systems, is accessible, and has been tested to confirm compatibility with assistive technologies.
This survey is open to W3C Members and people who participate in W3C group activities, and anyone involved in the Web. It is anonymous and takes 6 minutes or more to complete.
We ask that you use the link that you received in email if you did. We prepared a survey that has 4 additional questions that are specific to W3C Members. So two versions of the survey are being circulated, one for members and one for non-members.
Please help us disseminate the links of the survey for the rest of the community with your group(s), team(s), your networks, your friends that are interested in the impact of web standards on humanity.
The survey closes on Friday 13 September 2024. We look forward to hearing from you.
English Members: https://gzobeteisdd.typeform.com/to/uaESY6Q8
English External: https://gzobeteisdd.typeform.com/to/TeoUTslq
French Members: https://gzobeteisdd.typeform.com/to/U1C58KLO
French External: https://gzobeteisdd.typeform.com/to/Tyj602HT
Japanese Members: https://gzobeteisdd.typeform.com/to/dniLBGUQ
Japanese External: https://gzobeteisdd.typeform.com/to/zGk33stT
Chinese Members: https://gzobeteisdd.typeform.com/to/Mu6ARgiJ
Chinese External:  https://gzobeteisdd.typeform.com/to/S0KxM3CK

* SC: I've filled the survey.

### Chairing CG meeting at TPAC

* SC: There was a mention. Since you (VB) have organised the upcoming Solid CG meeting at TPAC, will you chair?
* VB: Yes I suppose but will check with the other chairs to confirm, and will coordinate with PAC.

### Follow up on Solid Community AU meeting

* eP: Would like to have more meetings with them. I've been to Web of things CG and an airport in Munich I think have a system to scan luggage using Solid. 
* VB: Happy to help coordinate.
* RG: Back story on carbon accounting folks is Sarven spoke with the St. Gallen group and brought it to their attention. VB, you want to start coordinating. It seems the Symposium is completely dissasociated from CG meetings. Since you're there, try to bring them in or encurage them to join these meetings.
* VB: Ok. Will reach out. 
* RG: Regarding feedback meetings, we could have them every fortnight. Instead of two projects in one do one project per call. 
* SC: +1 with that. We had for a while a short slot in the CG call for implementor feedback. It wasn't gone but we didn't keep it fixed in the meeting. I like short demos. I appreciate both. Short version can be 5-10 minutes in the CG meeting but nice to have longer versions, like what we had today. 
* VB: I offer both possibilities. Some people just want to give demo, others want to have longer meetings.
* eP: My preference is to have dedicated meeting, one project and fully focused on that. Skeptical about inviting people to the weekly meetings because sometimes we talk about process and people leave. 

### Solid Notifications

* RG: ...
* eP: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/183
* eP: It's something good to touch before STM. Goes into defining storage operations. Authorization panel has a related issue. My hesitation is not to map directly between ??? but have Solid operations, I don't think we should repeat but have one place defining solid operations and map to the activity type and so on.
* SC: https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/issues/85
* SC: This discussion around operations was mentioned, the Solid protocol mentions and we kept it generic. I tried to break down what are the operations that capture some of the main ones. It's more about the write operation as opposed to ACL write. Part of the reason why we didn't have delete, create, replace, update was because we haven't really demonstrated good implementation reports that would necessitate those. The complexity that would be introduced into an application. We can envision these modes and come up with 50 others. It's a design decision, balance between what's useful and sufficient enough to cover things. In Solid I don't think we have demonstrated how well read write control works. The applications demonstrating it in a convincing way. Look at Google docs. It's offering the user to share the article, invite others to view, edit, control/own. They pooured money and research into alowing users to share documents with others. This is not a random decision, sticking to three modes. If the interface has all these different modes, it feels we're working in an echo chamber /geeking out. Most users don't need it. I havet seen public data on tests and considerations performed about these things. 
* eP: This is exactly what I think this meeting is a good place to start. RG started with mapping activity types, I pointed out acces modes, SC focused more on access modes.. We need to look at what's in between those storage operations. There are three different ways of creatig a resource. Can we define a new operation and map it to ??? We can focus on looking at what's there, maing a table, and seeing how it maps to access modes, notification types.. I don't think this should be in WAC or ACP but Solid protocol. 
* eP: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/253
* eP: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/194
* SC: Some early work on mapping HTTP requests: https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/issues/85#issuecomment-913456115
* RG: With regards to ??? what operations fo you see? I need something that lets me send notification to someone's subscribing to ??? so you know how to act on it. Simple decision. We don't need this level of depth of discussion. 
* SC: We had this discussion any times. Depends on the vocabulary or level we're discussing. If you POST something to a container, that entials some resource being created. on a technical level what's actually being done is there's an addition made to that container/collection. Activity Streams uses that notion. When you post to a collection that is considered and add. If you use PUT targeting a resource foo/bar that is in AS considered a create. We can use CRUD. Those are well known / well tested operations our there and lots of things map from these operations. The design should come from implementation experience. Notification work makes the best case for it. 
* eP: Next Tuesday we can have a STM meeting. I'm available. 

ACTION: VB to schedule STM