# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2024-11-13T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Michiel de Jong](https://michielbdejong.com)
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Maxime Lecoq-Gaillard
* [Pierre-Antoine Champin](https://champin.net/#pa)
* Tim Berners-Lee
* Rahul
* [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
* Ted

---

## Announcements
* [@solid/pivot 1.1.1](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@solid/pivot) released
* a configuration solving some issues: https://github.com/solid-contrib/pivot/milestone/1?closed=1
  * if the trailing slash is missing it will redirect you to url with added slash
  * link to your pod root
  * use rdflib for patch so that turtle syntax is preserved
* eP: How do you plan to sync versioning with CSS? When CSS 8 will be released will it mean pivot 2.0 ?
* MdJ: You need a config file and a component build and you can start injecting your own classes.

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* elf Pavlik

### Introductions
*

---

## Topics

### Relation between what is sent and what is received
* MdJ: Question about the spec text: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/693
* MdJ: I noticed that the solid spec talks about storage but it only describes the interface. It doesn't say how the state of the resource should be kept over time. Rahul answered that it follows from HTTP semantics.
* eP: Did you stumble into a specific problem?
* MdJ: The preserving of Turtle syntax, I wasn't sure if that was a requirement
* eP: To my understanding, one can't rely on specific formatting being preserved
* PAC: I don't think that HTTP semantics guarantees that the content has to be the same. For `PUT`, the server is allowed to make changes to the content you `PUT`. Comments being stripped from Turtle could be an issue. I think spec should say something about reliance on what can be `PUT` and `GET`. LDP says what containment triples can be added. We should look into it.
* TBL: There was a question on the forum about having a Solid pod on top of SPARQL store. I'm trying not to put data in comments and instead to use actual `rdfs:comment` statements. Maybe we can say in the storage metadata whether or not this server is preserving formatting?
* MdJ: What if you have a cluster with multiple masters and later the nodes talk to each other and something else happens.
* RG: The data that you `GET` or `PUT` is always a representation. How it maps to the state is a prerogative of the server. We can decide if we want it. The server may say whether or not it will store the Turtle format. Whether you do it on the spec or implementation level is missing from the implementation.
* eP: JSON-LD framing, etc.
* RG: Do we need to choose RDF serialization which is the most serialization preserving?
* MdJ: I think you can never expect a server to fully preserve formatting of serialization.

### Documenting community-level server requirements
* MdJ: Would it make sense to introduce 'community-level requirements' on Solid servers for things like [Turtle syntax preservation](https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/342)?
* MdJ: Let's assume community level requirements. Can we entertain them in next two years? Can we even write down some kind of best practice in Solid CG?
* eP: I think we can document use cases and include both Turtle and JSON-LD formatting nuances.
* TBL: ... When you put pods into VCS (version control system) repositories, then you will have stable pretty printing. Unless you have RDF-based version control system. 
* eP: To my understanding, NextGraph with CRDTs has RDF-based versioning of the graph.
* RG: We can think about accommodating both RDF and TEXT in some way.
* eP: The use case should 
* PAC: I want to bring forward another UC; I will submit it to the WG. Consider Verifiable Credentials, which are datasets, but that's another tricky part. They are defined with JSON-LD. The argument is that the format is strict enough to use it as plain JSON, and that was an important vector for people to accept JSON-LD and process it as JSON. In this scenario, the formatting should be preserved.

### farm/ERP client-client protocols
* Maxime: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/694
* Maxime: It is all explained in the issue. What are the next steps?
* MdJ: On matrix channel, I suggested to PR
* MdJ: Is anybody against creation of this work item?
* _no objections_
* MdJ: We can allow the creation
* eP: There is a lot of generic stuff, and some specific to farming/food networks
* MdJ: We can start with more generic ERP, and the farm would be under it, for now
* RG: Are you the only author?
* Maxime: I'm working with the Data Food Consortium, and they agreed to be a partner.
* MdJ: I'm also interested to co-champion
* RG: Can you also add yourself under that work item?
* TBL: I found in general calling things `solid-*` makes it harder to autocomplete
* MdJ: should we just call it solid/erp
* eP: You should have access as the CG chair, IMO all chairs should have admin access.
* HZ: With Solid Team CG chairs didn't have admin access to the org.
* RG: I would prefer not to have enterprise in it, just resource planning?
* HZ: We are starting into the realm of intention economy, there is a term VRM
* MdJ: If there was a common term I would have heard about it
* eP: ERP is well recognized, we may need to reorganize things down the road.
* HZ: It is a matter of adoption. We should make it clear that we don't address enterprises only.
* RG: We should emphasize that it is decentralized
* eP: IMO solid/erp already implies the decentralized
* Maxime: Are you using ReSpec or Bikeshed?
* eP: around half of the drafts are using Bikeshed, Sarven is just writing HTML with RDFa. My preference would be to use Bikeshed.
* RG: The main dev of bikeshed is very responsive and answers issues very fast.
* Michal: We had a presentation from a group working on supply chains and calculating carbon emmisions. They might be interested in this work.
* RG: Maxime, were you there in my session on Solid Symposium? They presented it there, first. I can contact them if you write up a simple invitation.
* eP: TrinPod crew works with architecture, could be interested as well.
