# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2024-11-27T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Michiel de Jong](https://michielbdejong.com)
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com)
* [Pierre-Antoine Champin](https://champin.net/#pa)
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
* Hadrian Zbarcea (first half)
* Jesse Wright
* Jeff Zucker
* Rui Zhao
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed) (he/him) ([OpenLink Software](https://www.openlinksw.com/))
---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Michiel
* Hadrian

### Introductions
*

---

## Topics
### Large chunked uploads

* Erich: How can we do those? is there a standard way?
* Rahul: Resumable uploads spec in HTTP will probably become the standard way: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-httpbis-resumable-upload/
* Michiel: I know we have been talking about it. I read resumable uploads some years ago; it deals with byte ranges.
  * We are now in a situation where we have the community spec. In the meantime, there's the LWS working on the future spec. As a community, let's all support chunked uploads. That doesn't need adding to the spec.
* EB: It's a critical feature; there needs to be at least something. Most of the files I upload are fairly large.
* MdJ: We don't have an editable spec at the moment.
* PAC: Not talking in the name of the WG, it's ok for the community to continue to try things on the server side and any implementation feedback will be considered. The WG has to take them into account. It's a decision informed by the outside world.
* MdJ: I added a feature request in [Pivot](https://github.com/solid-contrib/pivot/issues/35)
* HZ: Feel free to add a use case in the [ucs repo](https://github.com/w3c/lws-ucs)

### WG and use cases collection

* JZ: Also don't forget about Practitioners! First meeting in Dec, ActivityPods will present. It's a prime group to get use cases from. So I'm wondering if Pierre-Antoine or someone else can come to a Practitioners meeting and prep us to how to submit them.
* JW: Here at the ODI, we can also help with use case collection, and help prepare submissions. PA, how can this person best help?
* PA: Maybe Hadrian wants to add to this, but the [ucs repo](https://github.com/w3c/lws-ucs) has an issue template, so really there is no further process than just submitting an issue, using that template. But I'll be happy to join the Practitioners meeting on 5 Dec! Also interesting to hear from ActivityPod.
* JZ: Thanks
* HZ: I won't be able to attend, but thanks PA for attending.
* JZ: Sounds great, thanks
* eP: I submitted one use case, but now await feedback on the format before submitting a few more -> https://github.com/w3c/lws-ucs/issues/17
* HZ: I'll provide feedback today @elf-pavlik 
 
### Opportunity for co-chair candidates to present themselves and answer questions

* eP: I don't recall crossing my paths with Han. I understand he works on a chat application. It would be interesting to get some collaboration.
  * From my perspective, I encourage people to participate in the CG meetings, participate in scribing, and build up some confidence and understand the level and nature of the effort.
  * Maybe in the future we could amend the charter or put up some guidelines. I think it would be healthy.
* MdJ: We should give Han an opportunity to introduce himeself.
* HZ: I'm not a fan of self-nomination, we could let the community nominate people. I agree with Pavlik that we should at some point rewrite the charter, but no rush. About self-nomination, the process is open for two weeks, let's see where this goes.
* MdJ: I'd say that if a candidate does not show up for the process, that disqualifies the candidate.
* JZ: I don't think anybody posted this on the forum. Let's post on the forum for the community to read about it. There may be people who did not participate in the CG, but participated in other places.
* eP: If anybody didn't participate in the CG, a first step would be to participate. This way they know how it works and how they can help out. If someone is not engaging, stepping in as a chair is not the best.
  * but we should definitely engage Han, as he works on a Solid technology. That's an opportunity for Han as well.
* MdJ: https://forum.solidproject.org/t/inviting-self-nominations-for-solid-cg-co-chair/8235
  * In this case, we already started the process. We have another week; let's continue down this path.
* RG: To double down, I don't think this person has attended even one meeting. Searching minutes I get no results for *Han*. Coming to at least few meetings is  a reasonable requirement for the future.
* MdJ: We should invite Han and give him opportunity to talk with everyone present at the meeting.
* eP: I decided after some discussions that I will self-nominate. I am ready to support other members of the group, but I am ready to help.
* MdJ: Let's give eP the opportunity to present his views.
* eP: Han is a member of the group (to answer RG).
* eP: I have been working with Solid for many years. I remember TPAC in 2015 in Paris. Worked with Indie people, ActivityPub. I was not engaged fully during the incubation at MIT. I was engaged fully after that, like Jackson and others.
  * I was a member of many panels. At the time, we didn't have the general meeting. Once it become more open, I was fully engaged. If you look the records, I probably attended at least 80%. I see the role of a chair as a responsibility, not a privilege. I am more than happy to help.
* HZ: I support elf Pavlik's candidature.
* HZ: I have to leave now.

### Update on the catalog from Jeff

JZ: Uploaded the catalog to:
* https://solidproject.solidcommunity.net/catalog/
* https://github.com/solid/catalog/ 
* https://github.com/solid-contrib/catalog 
* https://github.com/elf-pavlik/solid-efforts
eP: I understand that we will use SHACL; since I use LDO, I would like to have ShEx available as well.
JW: Yes, there is a converter. Also, I applied with Jackson for a grant to add SHACL support to LDO. I suggest writing shapes using [SHACL Compact syntax](https://w3c.github.io/shacl/shacl-compact-syntax/). For SHACL 1.2, I'm pushing to make the compact syntax a standard. I suggest using that compact syntax for all the shapes.
PA: Jesse covered most of what I wanted to say, just checking the [Data Shapes WG proposed charter](https://www.w3.org/2024/10/data-shapes.html).
PA: I also wanted to raise a flag: the expressivity of SHACL and ShEx are quite different, converters may be hard to write. Flag the original as the original, and the other one as a possibly lossy copy?
eP: I just wanted to note that Eric is an editor of SheX; can we get some feedback from him?
JW: Yes the mapping is imperfect; depending on the converter, it might error or provide imperfect mapping. At the same time, for most shapes I anticipate for Solid, we should get perfect conversions. It gets more complex with disjoints, etc.

### Communicating current state of specs and what to expect from WG to implementers

* eP: I'll have a call with people from ActivityPods later today. I would like to clarify how to signal to the community what projects it's worth working on.
* eP: What is the status of SAI / ACP / WAC, etc?
* MdJ: CG is an incubator; there is no one standard at this moment.
* PA: The creation of the WG has not changed the situation. Those expectations should have been there from the start. This should be clear, but it's never too late to try to communicate that better. Now is the time to gather some implementation experience from WAC, ACP, and SAI.
* eP: I agree with you, PA, that was always my understanding. Even in a WG, the working drafts can have breaking changes.
* PA: +1
* eP: At the same time, I don't think we discussed that well to the rest of the ecosystem, and there might be some expectation in the community that the current protocol is more stable than it really is.
* MdJ: Yes, and the current spec mentions both WAC and ACP, so there is not even a single current protocol.
* PA: Yes eP, we are in agreement, the suggestion of backward compatibity with the ecosystem was one of the objections to the initial WG charter proposal; WGs are here to standardize things that have been incubated. Until it's a standard, it's not a standard. 
