# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-06-04T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Present

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* Jeff Zucker
* Jesse Wright
* Marc 
* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com)

## Regrets
---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes
* failed test of https://fireflies.ai/

---

## Topics

### Update for Solid World
https://theodi.org/news-and-events/events/solid-world-june-2025/

* eP: I will give ~3min upate from CG

### Test Suites
https://github.com/solid-contrib/specification-tests

* eP: I'm working on adding tests for SAI and have a couple of questions about status of this work item

### Consistent actors and scenarios across use cases, snippets and test suite
https://github.com/w3c/lws-ucs/issues/158

* eP: Coordinating with LWS WG

### Solid Catalog - shapes for specs and software implementing it
https://github.com/solid/catalog/issues/18
https://github.com/solid/catalog/pull/19

* eP: Feedback is welcome


### [JW] Providing Lightweight infrastructure for publishing Vocabs
(contined from last week)

### [JW] Vocabs, Ontologies and Shapes (background for above discussions)
(contined from last week)

### [JW] Schema alignment best practises
