# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-09-10:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* Hadrian

## Present

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Luke Dary](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lukedary/)
* [David Pinto](https://www.linkedin.com/in/davidpinto101/)
* Tom Byrd
* [Ted Thibodeau Jr](https://www.linkedin.com/in/macted/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) // GitHub:[@TallTed](https://github.com/TallTed) // Mastodon:[@TallTed](https://mastodon.social/@TallTed)
* [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
* [Rui Zhao](https://me.ryey.icu)

## Regrets

## Scribes

* elf Pavlik (intros)

---

## Announcements


### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

---

## Review Action items

* eP to add Solid World to CG calendar - will do after this call
* Tom to prepare agenda topic about access control models and law - finishing it up, will share in few hours
* PAC Look for a person to explore the possibility of TPAC session and discuss it with Jesse, there will be semweb conf before that. - PAC sent a direct email with ccs, eP to follow up


## Introductions

* Luke Dary, developer at Red Hat, been following Solid since its inception. Couldn't convice anyone internally to use it. Now we have a reason and trying to get more invested into it. I work on external facing websites, I hope to propose Solid solution that spans various of my responsibilities. 
* David Pinto, mathematician and social anthropologist. Working on economy (hacking money at source, treating money as a vector generates a completely different social contract not based on exchange), currently working on game using AI. It maximises LLM use to generate narrative cohesion amongst players. The LLM-builders collapse into modes of operations which are categorically heavy, don't seem to scale. Exploring SOLID as potential means of p2p system http://sqale.co/ http://onen.ai/

## Topics

### Solid World

https://theodi.org/news-and-events/events/solid-world-september-2025/

Tue Sep 16th 

### Tracking obstacles

* HZ: should that be coordinated with Practitioners?
* Michal: we can discuss what new formats to include in Practitioners, this could be a good option.
* eP: I would appreciate expertise on JSON-LD framing

### Use cases and requirements

* Coordinating with WG
* Capturing ones like brought up by Fred for Trinpod

### Reconnecting with communities

Maybe Practictioners could lead it

* https://solidlab.be/
* https://solidcommunity.au/

#### TREE & LDES

https://www.w3.org/community/treecg/

### Update on Solid Efforts (if time allows)

* process for publishing to solidproject.org/TR 

## Actions

* ACTION: eP to ask Fred where his US is being tracked as well as the proposal, maybe CG can track it
* ACTION: HZ to reach out to contacts in Australia
