# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-09-17:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)

## Present

* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com)
* Tom Byrd
* Marc Haddle
* Theo - Thhck
* [Ted Thibodeau Jr](https://www.linkedin.com/in/macted/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) // GitHub:[@TallTed](https://github.com/TallTed) // Mastodon:[@TallTed](https://mastodon.social/@TallTed)
* [Rui Zhao](https://me.ryey.icu)

## Regrets

## Scribes

* Theo

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

---


## Introductions


## Review Action items
* Tom from 2 weeks ago - https://hackmd.io/@dtb23/SyWsIvljll
* ACTION: eP to ask Fred where his US is being tracked as well as the proposal, maybe CG can track it
  * eP: Fred created a use case https://github.com/w3c/lws-ucs/issues/215
* ACTION: HZ to reach out to contacts in Australia


## Topics

### Tracking Proposals for UCR
  * eP: How do we track prior art and new proposals?
    * eP: Or who can track those? Hadrian?
    * EB: Track it on a github issue
    * RZ: Github issue is OK but not the best; can show all the categories together and can't do a good semantic link between the issue. Can also use github project (like a kanban), (but has some limitation too)
    * eP: I can follow up on that, and coordinate with Hadrian. Ppl from WG can join CG meeting to organise it. Can find time and space to work on that. 


### Pull Requests

#### Publish SAI v0.1

https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/743

* eP: Mostly reserves canonical URLs and publishes minimal RDF description of spec/primer and product classes
* eP: Try to get canonical URL or permalink for the primer and spec, get ride of github pages. Create a `solidproject.org/TR` link . Someone has opinion on this?
* eP: Sarven raised concernes on the spec [...]
* no opinion from the meeting participants; eP will wait for the review of the tagged reviewer

### Tracking obstacles

* Theo: I was able to run ESM-only library on CSS 8-alpha.1 fedify a FediVerse library implementing most of ActivityPub spec. I plan to make some glue to have it working with Solid via CSS.
* eP: Are you coordinate with Michal? He plans to present something?
* Theo: Yes, we take different approaches, he develops an external agent, and I'm implementing directly in CSS. It will be good to see the two different approaches in action.
* eP: Michal might do a demo on his work. 

### Implementation feedback

https://theodi.org/news-and-events/events/solid-world-september-2025/

* eP: Important part of CG is to work on report, and to be in contact with actor implementing. Get implementation feedback and report to the spec. Yesterday, ppl who presented at the SolidWorld were mostly ppl who are not part of the CG. How can we get feedback from those implementers? Shoud we reach out? Let's try to get this feedback. 
* eP: Two very interesting projects were presented during the SolidWorld. We could gather important implementation feedback from their tech leads. Who would like to make an attempt to organize initial meetings, where we could start deep dive into technical details? Preferably we would coordinate with LWS WG in case someone wants to join. After that we should produce PR capturing that feedback that gets reviewed by the implementers providing it.
* eP: We can make a separate meeting or invite them to the CG. 
* Theo: I can contact them

## Actions

* ACTION: Theo to connect with muze.nl and PASS to gather feedback
* ACTION: eP to follow up with Hadrian, Rui, and others to put it on the agenda as longer topic

