# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-02-19T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Present
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Matthias Evering](https://solidweb.me/testpro/)
* [Pierre-Antoine Champin](https://champin.net/#pa)
* [Areeba Aziz](https://areeba.ca/)
* Rahul Gupta 

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes

* 

## Topics

### Announcements

#### Scheduled STM about shape repo(s)

https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/c2263a25-3633-4a6a-8a39-4cd38a29de33/
https://forum.solidproject.org/t/solid-stm-about-shape-repo-s/8819

#### Possible STM about app launcher explorations

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Q1nUmGdaXE
https://github.com/activitypods/activitypods/pull/265
https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/324
https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/603#discussioncomment-7842808

#### Solid World

https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/2390f6e9-1e3c-4dab-89ab-512fca81fc80/
https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/solid-world-february-2025-tickets-1224731427669

* eP: What we should include in the update from CG? Also roadmap topic is relevant


### Setting a roadmap and deliverables for the CG

* eP: Would like to consider overlap with https://github.com/solid/roadmap

### Issues renamed to *[Use of copyrighted material without permission or consent]*

* eP: Just bringing it up to think how we can avoid such situations in the future


------

Participants decided to end meeting after 20 min
