# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-10-15T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* Michiel

## Present

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com)
* <a href="https://csarven.ca/#i" rel="schema:attendee">Sarven Capadisli</a>
* Tom Byrd
* Theo - @thhck 
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Marc Haddle
* [Ted Thibodeau Jr](https://www.linkedin.com/in/macted/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) // GitHub:[@TallTed](https://github.com/TallTed) // Mastodon:[@TallTed](https://mastodon.social/@TallTed)
* Luke Dary

## Regrets

## Scribes


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

---


## Introductions


## Review Action items

* HZ to reach out to contacts in Australia
* Theo to connect with muze.nl and PASS to gather feedback
  * done. no answer yet from either, but
  * MdJ: if we invited them to contribute their experience and ideas then I guess that's enough 
* eP to follow up with Hadrian, Rui, and others to put it on the agenda as longer topic about tracking proposals for use cases
  * eP: can we plan next step today if everyone is present?
  * eP: Hadrian doesn't seem to follow matrix and my email ended up on spam list due to issue in DNS config. Can we pick a common communication channel?
MdJ: we'll move these items to github, so we can remove them here 

## Topics

### Pull Requests

### Tracking obstacles

### Removal of content in GitHub issues

* eP: Followup on https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2025-10-01.md#copyright-violation-claim-in-solid-cg
* eP: From email thread, I understand that Ruben just wants to be left alone and CG should be able to restore content. We could write very short action plan to restore content I could double check with Ruben if he commits to accept that content being restored not to raise any copyright claims.
* eP: Where exactly the offcial claim (not renaming issue) was raised and who is responsible for resolving it? There were mentions of ODI and W3C but to my understanding not directly Solid CG.
* SC: Don't need permission from RV to restore content or change issue titles. Anything pertaining to copyright can be addressed by W3C, if it has any merit. The rest is about protecting CG material, and the CG (e.g., chairs) can do that.
* SC: With respect to being "left alone", that certainly didn't seem to be the case when RV decided to participate in https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/711 (see also Internet Archive) on his own (years after leaving the CG). No one is chasing RV to my knowledge.

### Spin-off CGs?

* MdJ: Thinking outside the box here â€” some of our work items (like personal data interop and personal data auth) are useful outside of Solid, too. So we could move them into spin-off CGs?
* eP: yes, I tried something like this with RDF-CRDT, but there was too much overhead animating the momentum, so in the end we would maybe end up with 5 inactive CGs instead of one active one
* SC: I think along the same lines. There needs to be significant activity to be worthwhile whether panel or another CG/WG/IG or whatever. SAI could become a WG because there is incubation history. You would also need to get buy-in from outside Solid. Groups have a risk of being exciting at first but then quieting down later. Have some commitment from people and have a charter etc.
* eP: I'll join the CG program meeting again, we can improve interaction with other CGs. It's a bit like monorepo vs multiple repos, it doesn't really matter what you call it, the same people would be doing the same work.
* TomB: I second what Pavlik said. Breakout sessions or panels or deep-dive groups, and report to the bigger group.
* Ted: we could also use task forces (or working groups)
* eP: if a topic is dominating the meeting space we can then create a task force

### Upcoming elections
eP: we'll do them in November probably.

### participating in creating agenda
eP: Please feel free to add things to meeting agendas, like demos

## Actions

eP: reach out to Ruben about the name changes, then change the 11 issue names back.
