# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-11-19T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* Hadrian

## Present

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net) — I will be joning from mobile while commuting
* Alain Bourgeois
* [Luke Dary](https://w3c.social/@lukedary)
* Jesse Wright
* Precious Oritsedere
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com)
* [Ted Thibodeau Jr](https://www.linkedin.com/in/macted/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) // GitHub:[@TallTed](https://github.com/TallTed) // Mastodon:[@TallTed](https://mastodon.social/@TallTed)
* 

## Regrets

## Scribes

* Jesse Wright

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

---


## Introductions

* Precious: I am a front-end developer with 5 years experience. I recently joined the ODI working on Solid. I have previous experience working in the creative commons community doing community management. I am excited to be here and to get sucked into working on Solid, and excited by the opportunity of applying for the co-chair role.
* eP: Thanks for joining us!
* Hadrian: Thanks for joining us!

## Review Action items

* RE: Status of Solid Australia.
* JW: There is a Solid Austratlia, led mostly by Cameron. Most of the work around Solid is done by ANU, about 3 developers. Cameron is trying to get more interest in Solid, but most of the interest is around data trust, not specifically Solid.
* eP: Last year we had 2 meetings with Solid AU, we should stay in closer touch, maybe once a quarter, looking for opportunities to help each other.
* JW: There are 3 good points of contact. I can make the introductions.


## Topics

### Local First (or Local as well)

Following on the interest in a few use cases related to accessing a Pod locally on a device and various other interoperability issues, I had a conversation with Erich a couple of weeks ago and he pointed me to HDF5, see links bellow. I'd encourage the community to take a look at it and think about the usefulness of, and write a spec for, storing a Pod or parts of a Pod in this format.

https://www.hdfgroup.org/solutions/hdf5/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hierarchical_Data_Format

* HZ: HDF5 could be of interest for storing files in Solid.
* eP: They have some interesting libraries. Could be useful for portability and to help with moving between providers for exporting and importing of data. Writing a CSS adapter for this could be straightforward. There is a WASM library that can be used for TS.
* HZ: Other use cases can include having a read-only Solid pod served from such a file, or putting parts of a Pod in such a file.


### CG Co-Chair Election

#### [call for candidates](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2025Nov/0000.html)
* [Christoph Braun](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2025Nov/0002.html)
* [Oghenerukevwe Precious Oritsedere](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2025Nov/0003.html)
* [Theo](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2025Nov/0004.html)

* HZ: We have 3 candidates and 2 seats. Unless someone withdraws, we are closing nominations.
* eP: I would like candidates to support in running the election. Unless someone withdraws we will start the voting next week. I would like to find a time next week where all candidates can be present.
* JW: +1. I suggest we have the call with candidates next week, and open for votes after next weeks CG call.
* eP: We may need to change the meeting hour next time so I will still send out a poll. Since Precious is here, I would like to ask some questions now — would that be ok?
* PO: Yes, I can give a bit of background first as well. I have front end experience in React/NextJS/Angular/Vue and other frameworks. I also have experience governing opensource communities such as with creative commons — I have done this since 2021. At the ODI I am building Solid Applications and also updating the project website. I am interested in the role of co-chair.
* HZ: Where do you see the value of Solid?
* PO: I like the fact that it works on decentralised data. I also have experience working other decentralised ecosystems, including working on solidity and other Web3/crypto projects.
* eP: Since you now work for ODI, would responsibility of chair responsiblities be something you can during working hours — this would mean you are better able to handle the responsiblities, such as communications, which often fall through the cracks when chairs are doing this kind of work in their spare time.
* JW: Yes, we would be funding PO to do this on ODI time.
* eP: Do you have familiarty with W3C standards development and WG/CGs
* PO: I am new to W3C standards development processess. Jesse and other ODI staff are supporting me, and I am also seeing this as a good opportunity to learn about these processes.
* eP: I have 15 years working with these kinds of groups so have a good understanding — the other chair is likely to as well; so we will be able to effectively support you. So I don't think this is a requisite.
* eP: What is the best platform that we are all checking to coordinate on election processes? 
* PO: I can work with both matrix and email.
* JW: Let's just use solid/specification on Matrix.
* eP: Let's do that.

### Sender-constrained Identity Tokens

https://github.com/w3c/lws-protocol/pull/43#discussion_r2535764799

* eP: LWS WG may not specify a binding mechanism for the ID token, which means that pre-established trust will be required, or user will need to authorize issuing ID token to each server application that's accessing protected data on, or ...? I see it very likely that Solid CG will need to fill in this gap and incubate various proposals.
* eP: I might want to explore [OIDC4VP](https://openid.net/specs/openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.html) and see what binding mechanisms are available for VPs/VCs.
* eP: For a set of applications running Solid client in a web browser, it might be useful to keep FedCM in mind and ensure good integration.

### Misc

* Luke: What other Working and Community Groups are related to Solid?
* JW: Depends what you are interested in:
    - https://www.w3.org/community/webagents/
    - https://www.w3.org/community/crdt4rdf/
    - https://www.w3.org/community/treecg/
    - https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/oki/
    - https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/social/
    - https://www.w3.org/TR/fedcm/
    - https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/data-shapes/
    - https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/

## Actions

eP: create a scheduling poll and send it to candidates and chairs
