# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-06-25T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)

## Present

* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Marc Haddle
* Jeff Zucker
* Tom Byrd
* Erich Bremer
* Matthias Evering
* Jesse Wright

## Regrets


## Scribes

* elf Pavlik

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

---

## Topics

### Review Action items

* ACTION: ✅ HZ to reach out to Inrupt to understarstand the commitment to maintain the repo
* ACTION: ✅ eP to make a PR on text we worked on with Ian
* ACTION: ✅ PAC to check with W3C about content negotiation for /TR/

### CG Chair rotation schedule

https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/703

* eP: when we copy minutes from the pad we can simply update *chair* for the next meeting

### initial drafts of principles and framework for proposals

https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/pull/22

#### Concerns about overlap and ambiguity introduced by PR 22
URL: https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/issues/23


### solid catalog - plans for self publishing

https://github.com/solid/catalog/issues/4#issuecomment-2994170980

* eP: ...
* JZ: sharing screen
* JZ: this is current version of catalog, my and Pavlik's goals are very different. I worked on it for 5 years and gathered hundreds of records. What I designed is meant to be public facing catalog intended for people not familiar with solid to get involved. Find resources, help with app development, information on technical resources. 
* JZ: Very important part is categorization and presentation of categories, it is an ongoing process and changes based on user's feedback. I think it is premature for most parts to talk about self publishing. Some of technical resources that Pavlik is working on, are close to be ready for self publishing. On the other hand learning resources, communication channels etc. Those don't have existing descriptions and we don't have a way to pull that information out. There is a number of issues with organizations and people. We can say that they have WebID and we can just scrape that. People may want to have different things in their WebID profile and in solid catalog profile. I don't think we will ever get to the point where everyone has capability to do that. I think we need  central catalog with forms. We can also eventually accomodate pulling in the data from other sources. I don't think shapes are ready, especially in the form of categorization. If we look at existing classes, we don't get any further categorization of that. We have keyword system as well to gather input for the future.
* JZ: I'm in favor of eventual self-publishing effort, not in favor to jump directly into that. 
* JZ: Another difference is in using SKOS categories, Pavlik takes a position that those are catalog specific and we shouldn't have it as part of our shapes. If the idea is to self publish without paying attention to categorization I'm opposed for that.
* JZ: I proposed that we can have submission process where categories can be added. I don't agree to dump data into catalog without categorizing it. Categorization can help with drawing in users.
* eP: ...
* EB: Where is the RDF data?
* eP: https://github.com/solid/catalog/blob/main/catalog-data.ttl
* JZ: For some kinds of resources categories can be added afterwards. For example for apps people should be able to add categories by themself. I think this should be part of shapes. Here is published skos taxonomy, public can say it makes sense or not, app providers can say if it describes their apps or not. 


conversation continues unscribed
