# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-12-03T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)

## Present

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Christoph Braun / uvdsl](https://github.com/uvdsl)
* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com)
* [Ted Thibodeau Jr](https://www.linkedin.com/in/macted/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) // GitHub:[@TallTed](https://github.com/TallTed) // Mastodon:[@TallTed](https://mastodon.social/@TallTed)
* Theo [@thhck](https://github.com/thhck)
* Alain Bourgeois
* [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
* Precious Oritsedere
* Jesse Wright

## Regrets

## Scribes

* Theo

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

---

## Introductions

## Actions Review
- ✅ eP to send out the email for snapshot publication and affiliation members voters update.
- ✅ eP and Michal to publish the snapshot.

## Topics

### Chair election updates

https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2025Nov/0016.html
https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/issues/26

* eP: As email stated, 
  > Unless something unexpected comes up, this process will end in 2 weeks 2025-12-11 24:00UTC
  > The day after that a 2 week voting period will start,
* eP: [explaining the points above], early January the W3C staff will probably provide the election results
* eP: also thanks to theo and michal for helping with the technical issues
* eP: If there is any volunteer to help with the remaining [task](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/issues/26), that would be nice.
* TallTed: two from now ?
* eP: yes, that was relative to the date when the email was sent

### Solid World

Dec 9th

 * eP: I'll be sharing news from the CG
 * eP: Does anyone have suggestions of what I should highlight?
 * Jesse: A Roadmap on where the CG is heading next year (like client to client spec). Maybe premature for Solid World, but good subject for next year
 * eP: Can we clarify who has time and energy to work on it? Who can dedicate some regular time on client interop, data domain interop? 
 * Jesse: Good area of task force:
     * data domain like education and health
       (ODI planing hackathon in April (no domain for the moment, but I'd be interested in supporting c2c spec for a particular domain))
     * governance of application
* eP: Suggestions for updates from CG?
* JW: https://sosy2026-solid-at-scale.jeswr.org/
* ...: https://docs.google.com/document/u/1/d/1cP2qQDlWYoJnw-Bbqbr5FrVcUsbKJB4kUm6BSwXz20Q/edit?tab=t.0
* eP: Are you planning to champion one of those item? 
* Jesse: I would like to champion the last two (governance + ???) and the first one would be someone from the ODI for a particular domain
* eP: Good if a domain expert is involved. When it comes to ontology, shape, and vocab, maybe solid-cg is the best group to work on those topics. 
* CB: For the modeling part, the community has some people who know how to model but they cannot be everywhere at once. The people who create an app should champion their data model and propose a norm, get joined by others, and start the process from here. There should be a task force around access requests. Should come from the bottom. 
* eP: Agree with CB. Important not to be too attached, and it has to be moderated
* CB: Moderation is the chair's job
* eP: It can be driven by ppl who use the data model
* Jesse: If building a solid app, please contact the CG and share the domain you work on, so we can organise domain-specific task forces
* eP: OpenWallet Foundation also works on education credential and education domain. My idea would be not to stay within solid but also reach out to similar initiatives that might not be 100% solid. It might be more challenging, but we might have more coverage. 
* eP: I'll ask people working on specific domain to reach CG



### Solid ODI AC

Dec 8th

* eP: suggestions for updates from CG?
* eP: CG people work on their individual projects, not common CG work. We can present who is working on what. 
* Jesse: For the AC, the useful updates are the ones that inform how the ODI is working with the CG. Updates on specific projects might not be so relevant
* eP: If anyone has suggestion, please reach out before AC 
* RZ: what is AC ? 
* Jesse: Advisory Committee of the ODI working with Solid

### Social Web WG

 * eP: Some people are working on ActivityPod/Solid interop 
 * Michal: Yes, Theo and I 


https://www.w3.org/2025/11/proposed-socialwg-charter.html

> LOLA
LOLA is a proposal for live online account portability between two ActivityPub servers at the request of a user.

### LWS Auth

https://github.com/w3c/lws-protocol/pull/43
https://github.com/w3c/lws-protocol/pull/45
https://www.w3.org/TR/cid/
https://elf-pavlik.github.io/lws-auth/view/oidc/?dynamic=sequence

* eP: I would like to take a closer look at Controlled Identifiers v1.0 and use cases related to social profiles.
* eP: It would also be good to hear from editors of https://solid.github.io/webid-profile/
* eP: CID now used instead of WebID, interesting update I wanted to share
* [ some other tech changes... see the PR ]
* CB: What are the differences between CID and WebID? AFAIU CID are a more general approach than WebID that can defer to WebID or DID, so could still work with WebID
* eP: might be a different approach. 
* ...: Some security issues with WebID draft, mixed with personal document which should be separated IMO: one document for trust, security, etc., and another for social profile and personal info. 
* ...: Encourage anyone working on Auth to take a look
* ...: As CG, it's also OK to diverge from that
* ...: Timeline is pretty tight, so if we want to give feedback, should be relatively soon
* RZ: I have been at Andreas' WG, and CID is confirmed to be a JSON-LD doc, whereas WebID defaults to Turtle. Does that mean we should switch to JSON-LD in the future? 
* eP: I think CID is its own data type (specific JSON-LD sub-type). For me, not an issue, because I use a library that can parse and change content. 
* RZ: Yeah; in theory, they are equivalent
* eP: Does CID even have to be exposed to Solid protocol (has WebID doesn't has to)?
* Theo: I would be interested in digging into those subjects. Maybe thinker some CSS extensions.

## any other subject ? 

* CB: Solid Symposium: We want to you all there, gather the community, I invite you all to submit something and come!
* eP: I'll be able to join this year physically 
* Erich: Doing a presentation too
* Precious: I'll be there
* eP: Possible to contribute, even remotely, so don't hesitate!
* eP: on the 12 be able to vote for the chair

## Actions


* ACTION: eP: add to CG calendar
* ACTION: eP: ask people working on specific domain to reach CG
