# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-09-03:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* Michiel

## Present

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Pierre-Antoine Champin](https://champin.net/#pa)
* [Matthias Evering](https://soliweb.me/testpro/)
* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com)
* Tom Byrd
* [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
* Marc Haddle
* Michiel de Jong
* Mahdi Baghbani
* [Matthieu Bosquet](https://github.com/matthieubosquet)
* Ted Thibodeau Jr (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) // GitHub:[@TallTed](https://github.com/TallTed) // Mastodon:[@TallTed](https://mastodon.social/@TallTed)
* [Rui Zhao](https://me.ryey.icu)


## Regrets

## Scribes

* elf Pavlik 

---

## Announcements


### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

---

## Review Action items

* eP: [Draft PR to CSS grant-type:jwt-barer — alternative to client credentials](https://github.com/CommunitySolidServer/CommunitySolidServer/pull/2053) — Client ID URL and multi tenant
* eP: [Conformance Test Hanress 'main' seems broken](https://github.com/solid-contrib/conformance-test-harness/issues/673)
* eP: [ESM support for Components.js](https://github.com/comunica/comunica/issues/930#issuecomment-3224275352) — affecting CSS, sai-js, LDO (indirectly NextGraph), Comunica, etc.

## Topics

### Community Council CG

[Update on Project to Enhance Community Groups](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/29a19815-57f8-488a-8e14-9b5809bf14de/)

### Solid World

https://theodi.org/news-and-events/events/solid-world-september-2025/

Tue Sep 16th 


### Focus in Q4 2025

#### Demos

* PodOS — Angelo
* DToU — Rui
* LDES? — Wout?
* SpOTy: Solid app developed in collab with research center in linguistics — PAC
* Solid Activity Pub integration — Michal


##### misc

* Tom: Discussion about access control models and law; for example, in US, regarding health care.


### Tracking obstacles

We can keep better track of the obstacles participants are facing in achieving their goals. How CG and broader Solid community can help with overcoming them.

eP: For instance, functionality someone needs in CSS or in the test harness.

MdJ: Yes, for instance also, when someone asks a question on Matrix, in general we get good replies and pointers.

Matthias: I managed to process read process, now working on write. It feels like the puzzle where pieces are falling into places. I'm diving into Noel's code, and following open source approach.

### Use cases and requirements

* Coordinating with WG
* Capturing ones like brought up by Fred for Trinpod

### Reconnecting with communities

Maybe Practictioners could lead it

* https://solidlab.be/
* https://solidcommunity.au/

PAC: Scope of Solid CG is pretty broad and it might be hard to track. There are break out sessions around TPAC and in spring. CGs may discuss and open what they do for broader audience. Also open our group and make joined sessions. PAC will be there in person.

https://www.w3.org/2025/11/TPAC/breakouts.html


### Scribing

Can we keep trying to automate it? More CGs need it, worth finding out what hapened to the [modern tooling](https://w3c.github.io/modern-tooling/) effort.

* TallTed: Credentials CG has embraced GoogleMeet and some autotranscriber therein. It's still not perfect, but it's better than many humans, and far better than bot transcription was <strike>a year</strike> a few months ago.

MdJ: I don't think scribing is enough of a reason to move away from open source tooling.


## Actions

* ACTION: eP to add Solid World to CG calendar
* ACTION: Tom to prepare agenda topic about access control models and law
* ACTION: PAC Look for a person to explore the possibility and discuss it with Jesse, there will be semweb conf before that.
