# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-03-12T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Present
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [SÃ©bastien Rosset](https://activitypods.org)
* Hadrian
* Jesse Wright
* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com)
* [Marc Haddle](marc.haddle@datasolids.com)
* Grace
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
* [TallTed // Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)
* Alain Bourgeois

## Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

## Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes

* Hadrian
* elf Pavlik

## Topics

### Announcements

#### STM App Launchers

https://hackmd.io/@solid/S1esCoaokl
Scheduling poll: https://app.rallly.co/invite/2FC5mr4PtLuC

* eP: I would like to schedule it for next week in a way that accomodates Joseph on UTC+11
* ... everyone please feel free to add notes and let's have a meeting next week

#### ActivityPub interop

* SR: Theo (thhck) and Michal (mrkvon) are going to work on an agent and/or CSS extension. I'll help with the ActivityPub spec compliance. We have created a channel to discuss this.
* SR: I created issues https://github.com/solid/activitypub-interop/issues
* ... we created this repository to discuss activitypub interoperability.
* ... Theo and Michal started private conversations whether to do an agent or a CSS extension. Best would be an external agent, but there may be a lot of difficulty with that because we'd need to change a few things in Solid.
* ... In the repo, I created issues.
* JW: Just to clarify, is the goal to get activitypub implemented in CSS?
* SR: Yes, to make it easy for a provider to support activitypub. If the provider does not want to support activitypub, users won't be able to interact via such a channel
* eP: WebID can be completely separate, decoupled from storage. I haven't looked at all the issues yet. Can we keep the conversation in public?
* SR: I will discuss with others and will create another channel.
* JW: Only Jeff and myself have the permission to create new channels.
* HZ: I prefer to have minimum permissions and I can request someone who has them to do it.
* eP: in general, with chat channels, I think of them as a scratch pad.


### Is the ActivityPub interop spec for Pod providers or agents?

https://github.com/solid/activitypub-interop/issues/2

* SR:
* eP: In specs, we define product classes, and then requirements are for a specific product class.
* ... At this time, each spec defines its own product class. I am trying to capture what product classes are needed in Solid.
* ... If we use agents, we need to define agents as a product class.
* SR: If it becomes clear that we could do that with an agent, there will have to be a spec for that.
* eP: I think we need to do a bit of a mapping. Need to look at concrete examples.
* SR: I am not sure what a product class is, maybe provide an example?
* HZ: We need notion of infrastructure. I don't think we can define today.
* eP: I am sharing my screen for examples of product class. There are the client-servers. There is however the link to the normative notification spec, which defines more product classes.
https://www.w3.org/2024/09/TPAC/group-updates.html#solid
* ... In the interop spec, there are more classes of product.
* ... I see Theo joined, welcome.
* RH: I was going to say what eP already said (bad sound).

### Migration from the W3C vCard to the W3C FOAF ontology?

https://github.com/solid/contacts/issues/8

* SR: I am the one who first raised the issue in the channel. I have a small document:
https://pad.lescommuns.org/ZB36czLASgCGwSNAtYClmg?both
* ... Still a draft. I am not satisfied with how it's currently done in Solid.
* HZ: Those standards come and go. We should support any standard and provide mapping.
* eP: https://github.com/solid/contacts/issues/5
* ... Very related to shapeTree meeting.
* ... How to share a specific resource? If someone has multiple email, for example.
* ... How to allow selective disclosure?
* SR: I think this is a different subject. For me, it's just about WebID. What you are talking about is a Profile. It is needed to have more fine-grained profile.
* eP: I was raising an issue that WebID Profile and Contact address book is not aligned at this moment.
* SR: In an addressbook, do we want the information a person has on their profile, or just contact info? On a phone, you can put info on contact list yourself.
* eP: in SAI, you can add information. In a relation, one end can add infromation on the relation. Don't know who should lead the contact spec. Maybe we need to take action to see who can champion this spec.
* AB: Just to remember, there is a contact app in SolidOS.
* eP: Is it fully reflecting what is defined in solid/contacts repo?
* AB: In SolidOS, you have an address book that is not the profile, but you have a link to the profile. It works with people that have a WebID and those who don't.
* eP: Any more questions? I think we should follow up on this question, next week or the week after. Not a closed topic. I feel we opened it today.


### Selection process for Operations Advisory Comittee
* JW: There are proposals for how to select how one can (1) self-nominate and (2) vote per the discussion [here](https://github.com/solid/odi-governance/pull/20#discussion_r1989956669).
* JW: Who is eligible to vote for the AC? It's a group of 3 people who give advice on solidcommunity.net, NSS-to-CSS migration, roadmap on infra.... ODI should prioritise.
  ... The draft of the selection process is that the CG are the people who can vote [...]
  ... Some people noted this what not appropriate so wanted to ask here who can vote and nominate:
  ...People who can self-nominate are people who have contributed to the infra in some way. Should we do something different?
( silence taken as a no )
* JW: Are there any objections to the use of a [broda count](https://github.com/solid/odi-governance/pull/20#discussion_r1987117784) for voting.
* Rahul: [explain how broda count works]
* Rahul: Based on the feedback of nomination last time and CG, important to see the critera for nominating ourselves. "Substantial contribution" can be hard to define.
* JW: Greatly appriciate.

## FedCG update and Demo

* eP: I had remote meetings with Theo and he made good progress
* ... wasn't able to join yesterday, but I believe Theo presented his work. I think he was using the Inrupt client libraries.
* ... Theo implemented something similar to Solid OIDC, looks like we're close to using FedCM with Solid OIDC. I have to check to see how stable his code is.
* ... Last week, during the FedCM meeting, there was a discussion about what part is the "core" and what are "extensions". Just to clarify, IdP registration is something we need for Solid; otherwise, the RP is deciding what IdPs to use. In Solid, we want the user to bring on IdP, so the registration is necessary.
* ... If we get better collaboration with Social CG, maybe they'll create a working group.
* ... We want to make sure this IdP registration will be included in the final recommendation.

DEMO
