# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-02-12T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Agenda


## Present
* [Michiel de Jong](https://michielbdejong.com)
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Melvin Carvalho](https://melvincarvalho.com/#me)
* [Joshua Cornejo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshuacornejo/)
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* Jesse Wright
* [Tim Berners-Lee](https://timbl.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev/profile#i)
* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com/profile#me)
* [TallTed // Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)
* Rui Zhao

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/).
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes

* elf Pavlik

## Topics

### Announcements

#### Update from LWS WG

* HZ: We are working on requirements. Similar to last week, please feel free to comment on use cases. The process is open except for weekly meetings which are only open to members and invited others.

#### Update from Solid Practicioners

* eP: Last week mainly [health care was discussed](https://hackmd.io/Cu8LQrVwTfqjWm4w7sTw9A?view)
* eP: Hadrian mentioned [Inrupt hackathon](https://www.inrupt.com/event/solid-hackathon/home), registration ended on Feb 10th submissions Feb 19th
* HZ: We can make exceptions. If you want to join, DM me.
* eP: Plans for transportation-focused meeting

#### Update from FedID CG+WG

* eP: Shopify presented their FedCM implementation
* eP: Among discussed issues, this proposal seems very relevant to adopting FedCM in Solid: [OAuth profile for FedCM](https://github.com/w3c-fedid/FedCM/issues/599)
* MdJ: I understand that we are not adding it to solidcommunity.net due to cookies issue.
* eP: Not sure about that; Theo also created a discussion in oidc-provider.

#### Update from SWI CG

* eP: I announced https://github.com/elf-pavlik/activitypub-interop
* eP: Main focus was vote on CG charter. There was one objection related to chair election process.
* eP: Plans for proposing WG charter were mentioned.
* JW: What is the goal of SWI CG?
* MdJ: Mostly Fediverse.
* MC: It is a long-lived group in W3C. Created after SW WG where ActivityPub and Streams was specified, as well as Solid was present and IndieWeb. Now the focus is mainly ActivityPub and some IndieWeb. They have to finish charter by the end of March, otherwise W3C will write it. They are trying to move quickly on WG charter.
* MdJ: At FOSDEM, there was a big Social Web meeting.
* JW: Are there any oportunities for Solid that can be brought to WG charter?
* MC: The main difference in profiles are `#` ids. It was supposed to be one thing together, thanks to Linked Data. There are still divergences.

#### Update from Pivot/Solidcommunity.net
* MdJ: Pivot v1.6.4 released. Server still crashes on index account owner locks. Discussing whether to migrate this Saturday or not.

### Agentic Linked Data radar check

* MC: This is to put Agentic Linked Data on the radar of the CG and to ask about possible next steps such as creating a work item
* MC: https://hackmd.io/@jSWt69rrQAKeUTsa_s49Qg/H16RCGRv1g
* MC: Some people think of Solid as Social Linked Data which originally was using FOAF profile. The superclass of `foaf:Person` is `foaf:Agent`. With current take off of AIs, many peple are interested in exploring this space. I mostly want to coordinate efforts.
* MC: Should we do a Work Item, a task force?
* TimBL: Melvin, can you specify this work? What would be the objective?
* MC: There are different people who would like to achieve different objectives. I would like people to deploy agents to Solid pods; for example, the way you have TimBL bot. We should define what "agent" means. My peronal thought would be to document how to describe agents.
* TimBL: You may want to know who is responsible for the agent.
* MC: Should every agent have an owner?
* TimBL: RRSAagent, for example, works for W3C
* Josh: https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/webagents/
* MC: There will be coordination with that CG, but also reuse what is already in Solid.
* Josh: I'm doing a presentation to the WebAgents group on the 24th
  **Title:** Wall-E wants to do what? Future authorisation challenges with agents
  **Abstract:** Traditional access control mechanisms — Role-Based, Policy-Based, and Attribute-Based — all function effectively when an agent operates under a single, well-defined persona. Modern agents are increasingly fragmented, performing discrete tasks within specific personas and processes before transitioning to new ones. In such dynamic environments, static role, policy, or attribute assignments become ineffective. Instead, access must be granted precisely at the moment of task allocation and revoked immediately upon completion to ensure security and compliance.
* eP: ...
* MdJ: explaining STMs
* JW: It seems mostly about identifying and authorizing agents. In the paper, they take similar approach to what Tim discussed, where agent is owned by a legal entity.
  - [Delegated Authority paper from LLM Agent folks](https://arxiv.org/html/2501.09674v1)
  - [Access Delegation in LWS Use Cases](https://github.com/w3c/lws-ucs/issues/104)
* MC: I don't want to influence group too heavily, but I can keep loose structure and put it out there.
* JW: There are talks about how to describe delegation to agents. It helps when people bring concrete proposals.
* Josh: FYI — delegation of authority in OIDC is not the same as authorisation to do things. OIDC acknowledges there's a "gap" that is uncharted at the moment.
* eP: I see delegation as very important and would like to learn more about all the work mentioned.
* MC: People say agents are the new applications

### Solid MVP demo using ACP and type indexes
See ML thread "[Who writes the ACLs on your pod?](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2025Jan/0042.html)"

* MdJ: I call it data portabilty but it might be more interoperability. First is when you stop using one pod provider and start using another one; second is using multiple apps at the same time on the same data.
  The app uses bookmarks. Demo restricts the pod to only allow app launcher to access it; once you install the app with the launcher, it will modify the ACR to allow the app access to specific type(s) of data. I was happy to come back to it after 6 years.
  I see it as better than consent dialog, which misleads that user only authenticates but doesn't authorize any data scopes.
* eP: I plan to follow up on Security Considerations issue [Lack of client identification in Solid-OIDC + WAC](https://github.com/solid/security-considerations/issues/22)
* eP: Security Considerations vs. unmet requirements from use cases
* MdJ: I don't think we have a good understanding of requirements which Solid spec covers. And that makes it a security consideration if requirements say that Solid is not designed for chess, bookmarks, and other big number of apps. Given that we list those apps, and given that there is no way to do that, it makes it a security consideration.
* eP: ...
* MdJ: We have a Solid Spec. How I can do this to get interop? I'm aware that the MVP I created leaves a lot of questions. I didn't find a way to build this demo with WAC. I think we should add client authentication to WAC.
* TimBL: With WAC, you can make a group of apps, for example, so you should be able to manage them this way. Just like one can manage groups of people. Dynamically giving access to an app before you launch it is one way to do it. You could also just follow a link to the app and get to it this way. Are you saying that this doesn't work with WAC?
* MdJ: You can do that if those web apps are backends that use their own WebIDs. If they are browser apps, you can't do that. There are no client IDs in WAC.
* TimBL: There are Origins, but if you want to use client ID, you may need to add it to WAC.
* MdJ: Currently by default any origin/client is allowed to access all the data on your pod.
* TimBL: It is blocked by CORS. If you go to a random website, it will not get access to your pod.
* MdJ: Once you authenticate to this website, it can access everything.
* TimBL: How does it get over CORS?
* MdJ: Storage adds CORS headers
* TimBL: But only if WAC authorizes the request
* MdJ: If you do a regular login, this gives app full access to your storage by default.
* eP: describing requirements
* MdJ: I'm only looking at my pod and two different apps. It restricts the requirements of my use case. I'm also not looking how those appliations use the data. For example, it gets full access to my bookarks and it could corrupt them.
* MdJ: Solid spec dosn't say anytying about default pod profile. I think only one app should be allowed, in my case the launcer app. With that change my requirements are met.
* eP: SAI takes very similar approach. Only authorization agent can access all the data.
* MdJ: I didn't have an existing implemenation of SAI that enforces that on the server. SAI seems a paralel effor to what we call a Solid Protocol.
* RZ: It appears that you are asking for a way for an active user to restrict access to two different apps on their own pod. My comment is on the use case. I see issue in the wider context. What if the user wants to share data with other users? Will there be a drawback of that aproach?
* MdJ: If you want to switch to sharing with other users, you may add SAI and probably UMA. But I agre it is limited and as soon as you share, the demo breaks down.
* RZ: How does the user know to which application to grant access?
* MdJ: Solid user can choose roughly from 20 apps and only 3 of them are bookmarking apps.
* RZ: I'm thinking about future when we have thousands of apps. This is one of the topics for my research.

### Solid World

https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2025Feb/0031.html

* eP: We will share update from CG
* eP: Can we add it to the CG calendar? Any objections?

ACTION: eP to add Solid World to the CG calendar

### STM about shape repo(s)

https://forum.solidproject.org/t/solid-stm-about-shape-repo-s/8819

* eP: Post includes link to a scheduling poll

### The consent dialog is not working correctly
It's [not working at all](https://github.com/solid-contrib/pivot?tab=readme-ov-file#warning) when using WAC. When using ACP, it *could* work correctly, but only if combined with:
* a restrictive default template for "full owner access", with only one or two trusted apps in the matcher, e.g. https://github.com/SolidOS/css-mashlib/pull/12/files#r1931828067
* a launcher app that actually *edits* the ACLs to add trusted apps, e.g. https://github.com/pdsinterop/launcher-exploration

## Topics we did not have time for

### Setting a roadmap and deliverables for the CG

* eP: Would like to consider overlap with https://github.com/solid/roadmap
