# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-09-24:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* Michiel de Jong

## Present

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Luke Dary](https://linkedin.com/in/lukedary)
* Matthieu Bosquet
* [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
* Theo
* Tom Byrd
* Jesse W
* [Pierre-Antoine Champin](https://champin.net/#pa)
* Erich Bremer
* Rui Zhao

## Regrets

* TallTed
* Hadrian

## Scribes

* Matthieu
* Michiel

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

---


## Introductions


## Review Action items
* ACTION: HZ to reach out to contacts in Australia
  * HZ not present
* ACTION: Theo to connect with muze.nl and PASS to gather feedback
  * emails sent but no response yet
  * eP: feedback would be about authz, what do they use for discovery, type indexes, etc. Document what practitioners use.
  * JW: two comments: 1) make it easy for them to give feedback, ask specific questions. 2) this is an area where ODI can be better supporting in that conversation, e.g., through Solid World contacts to PASS. Let's not have too many crossed wires (CG, Practitioners, ODI, all asking the same questions). Let's follow a process, post on the specification and ODI matrix channels, and ODI can jump in where appropriate.
  * eP: indeed it would be good to have a process, but maybe someone from their technical teams can join our CG meetings.
  * Michiel: Maybe ODI can reach out to technical people to invite them to the CG meeting
  * eP: and ask for feedback on the test suite usability
* ACTION: eP to follow up with Hadrian, Rui, and others to put it on the agenda as longer topic about tracking proposals for use cases
  * eP: will be done (no time this past week)

## Topics

### Pull Requests

#### Publish SAI v0.1
https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/743

* SC: Reviews https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/743#pullrequestreview-3233700777 , https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/743#issuecomment-3303011300 . The proposal does not follow current CG Guidelines for publishing TRs.
  * eP: Editors should publish how they feel comfortable. I used a script tag to embed some RDF. We should try to embed RDF in HTML because content negotiation on W3.org is problematic.
  * eP: I remember TBL working with the same solution. I have a `<script type="application/ld+json">` in the HTML to add RDF.
  * eP: I only added minimum description, nothing that is requirements for tests. I started using the test harness for SAI and will add requirements after that works.
  * MdJ: OK, as long as you're aware of the value of linking from the test suite to spec paragraphs in a machine readable way, and PAC is OK with it then I am too.
  * MdJ: Any objections to publishing with RDF embedded in script tags
    - MdJ: +1
    - PAC: +1



  * MdJ: there were no objections

#### add semver version of publishing 
https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/pull/24

* SC: Review: https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/pull/24#pullrequestreview-3235967032 . The proposal lacks evidence of any confusion, and does not justify introducing unnecessary complexity. The current practice in the CG Guideline is based on W3C publication rules that's already familiar to the W3C community.

* MdJ: I have always been in favour of semver. I was pushing for tagging Solid .7 .8 etc. I see people want to use dates. They have advantage of timeline. But if document is already versioned it makes sense to use it in the URL as well. Whatever you use for spec and test suite, I think it was always looking at semver. 

ACTION: eP to check how test suite uses versions

* Matthieu: I would tend to advise consistency across namespace. If it has been done one way, there is a good case to keep it this way even if it isn't perfect.
* Pierre Antoine: I share Matthieu's opinion that if we have two ways of doing things it is a source of confusion. I see your opinion about having semantic versioning vs dates being confusing but I don't know and it seems to have worked well for W3C so far. I think in that sense there is a good point for keeping things as they are but I don't feel very strong about it either.
* Michiel: Ietf has versions that cannot be changed. W3C seems less prescriptive about it. The spec document could be versioned with a date and the semantic version 
* Pierre Antoine: Semantic versioning is designed for software (it seems inadequate if a bit pedantic to version specs this way). The second point is we don't use semver in W3C which is different from the date we use because one version can have several drafts with separate dates.
* Erich: For publications, I would go dates and wholeheartedly in favour of consistency.
* eP: Thanks for all your comments and I agree it is not the best moment to change things, I'll update the PR to reflect the consensus on embedding RDF and on URLs (date will not be publish, rather snapshot because of time to review PR).

ACTION: eP to update the PR



#### add type for Class of Product
https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/97

* SC: There are several issues with this proposal as extensively outlined in the reviews that I've provided. The proposal misinterprets `requirementSubject` (source: me, author), as well as goes counter to existing use of the term in publications (such as in Solid Protocol) - in a sense, the proposal attempts to hijack its actual use. The proposal also duplicates an existing solution that already provides a way to discover classes of products.
* Matthieu: vocab work is hard
* MdJ: you could amend your PR but you could also spend your energy elsewhere where it's easier to make a dent

### Tracking obstacles

### Copyright violation claim in Solid CG

Proposed by SC.

* SC: I've documented the concern with data as best as I can at https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2025Sep/0005.html . The request for help from W3C Team is focused on the copyright claim itself. At the end of the email, I requested that the current CG chairs:

  >to take this matter seriously, 
discuss it in CG and take appropriate action, such as changing the 
titles of the issues back to their original at this point, and take 
additional measures on handling actions of non-CG participants by 
coordinating with organisation hosting the `solid` GitHub organisation.

### Governance of Solid CG assets and communication

Proposed by SC.

* SC: from https://github.com/solid-contrib/shapes/issues/5#issuecomment-3326730800 :
  >Anything requiring Solid CG consensus must go through official communication channels. ODI neither governs nor controls W3C Solid CG's assets or work, nor does it determine what is "active" or "inactive" in any form.
* SC: If there is a disagreement on that expectation, it should be put in writing. If a detailed clarification is needed, a proposal can be put forwarded to the CG.

### Proposal to fix invalid moves and archiving

Proposed by SC.

* SC: from https://github.com/solid-contrib/shapes/issues/5#issuecomment-3326730800 :
  >I propose that the repositories be moved back to their original location, unarchived, and any settings changes undone. The CG as a whole can then decide what needs to be managed and coordinate with ODI.
* SC: Please unarchive repositories that were archived without CG's consent, e.g., https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/
* Jesse: I can provide context. We at the ODI are going through a cleanup of github.org/solid to do a better job of going through issue backlogs. We posted a spreadsheet open for comment for over two weeks and only enacted prescribed actions on things that were not commented on. Sarven then requested things be moved back. I'd like to discuss whether some work items can be considered not active and moved to solid-contrib.
* eP: The least friction approach, I really appreciate the work to cleanup and groom GitHub. It is unfortunate Sarven didn't manage to be here today. solid-contrib is a bit unclear whether it is under ODI perview. We could archive things.
* Jesse: We will moderate solid-contrib and add the code of conduct. We're not saying we won't ever touch a repo there, it's just that we're not actively monitoring that space. I'd like to check whether archiving is ok. We need a CG consensus to confirm the CG is ok with archiving.
* Michiel: I value the work Jesse is doing here and we should let him move and archive as makes sense. Whatever is clearer to readers.
* Jesse: I looked at the issue and Sarven asked to unarchive.
* Michal: I didn't understand what Sarven said. I'm not sure if solid and solid-contrib belongs to CG or ODI?
* Jesse: ODI has legal ownership of solid GitHub org and responsibility to monitor those repos. The only one deffered to the CG is solid/specification
* eP: I found the quote I looked for:
    * SC: If there is a proposal to archive repos: shapes, test-suite-panel, authentication-panel, solid-wg-charter, I have no objection. However, do not move them to another org or rename. 
* eP: Just to avoid the debate we can archive things, instead of moving.
* Jesse: For archiving, I am comfortable moving things back and archiving.

### Ownership Question

* Michal: I don't understand the meaning of legal ownership (especially for solid-contrib and practitioners things).
* Jesse: We are moderating all repository on the solid and solid-contrib GitHub org and all codebases are MIT license.
* Michiel: We can think of it as stewardship of these repos rather than ownership.
* eP: Can we update the readme of both solid and solid-contrib GitHub orgs to have those details (stewardship/code of conduct).
* Jesse: If an org like ODI is not moderating solid-contrib, we will hit issues where something such as solid server are not moderated. From a pragmatic standpoint, we just want consistent moderation of "official"/"popular" repos.
* Michal: I'm just thinking from the point of view of moving repos and admin rights.
* Jesse: I will come to the practitioners group to continue the conversation.
* eP: It should be transparent in the readme of the organisations who is admin of the orgs. That will help.

### Plans for `solid(-contrib)/shapes` repo
https://github.com/solid-contrib/shapes/issues/5#issuecomment-3325756416

* MB: Do we have consensus to move this back to solid org and archive?
* eP: +1
* MdJ: +1
* JW: +1
* RZ: +1
* MdJ: there were no objections.

### Plans for https://github.com/solid/test-suite-panel/
Vote to archive
* MdJ: +1
* eP: +1
* JW: +1
* RZ: +1
* MdJ: there were no objections.

### Plans for https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/
Vote to archive
* MdJ: +1
* eP: +1
* JW: +1
* RZ: +1
* MdJ: there were no objections.

### Plans for https://github.com/solid/solid-wg-charter/
Vote to archive
* MdJ: +1
* eP: +1
* JW: +1
* RZ: +1
* MdJ: there were no objections.

* SC: If there is a proposal to archive repos: shapes, test-suite-panel, authentication-panel, solid-wg-charter, I have no objection. However, do not move them to another org or rename.

### Access Controls and Community Content Standards
https://hackmd.io/@dtb23/SyWsIvljll

* eP: Tom shared it last week, we could have initial discussion and look for ways to follow up.

## Actions

