# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2026-02-11T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* Christoph Braun - [uvdsl](https://github.com/uvdsl)

## Present

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* Christoph Braun - [uvdsl](https://github.com/uvdsl)
* [Matthias Evering](https://solidweb.me/testpro/)
* [Luke Dary](https://w3c.social/@lukedary)
* [Jesse Wright](http://jeswr.org/)
* Alain Bourgeois
* Theo @thhck
* Tim Berners-Lee
* <a href="https://csarven.ca/#i" rel="schema:attendee">Sarven Capadisli</a> (joined 14:55Z)

## Regrets

* 

## Scribes

* CB - uvdsl - rough notes

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines

* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! Please introduce yourself.

---



## Introductions

* 



## Actions Review

* eP ✅✅ to follow up in mailing list
* JW to share first draft of `diff LWS Solid` Note
* JW to share notes on Fediverse with everyone
 
  
## Topics

### W3C Breakouts Day 2026 (2 min)
https://github.com/w3c/breakouts-day-2026
* eP: I recall Jesse suggested that ODI could organize something
* JW: Not being involved there, no new for my side.
* ... Propose a list of shared topics, could include logging system or usage of activity streams, just to get those groups to work together.
* eP: Is there someone here now who can commit to organise someting? I believe we need someone to take responsiblity to coordinate something in order to make it happen.
* JW: That would invovle to send an email to the chairs of that CG.
* eP: I do not have bandwith for that - maybe Theo is interested? If not, we just move on and accept that we do not have capacity right now.
* JW: We are also getting a Community Manager in in the next weeks, so they could help.
* eP: Lets do an action for that then.
* CB: We can also focus energy on the gruop and don't overstretch. If we don't do it this year we can still do it in the future.

### Poll for new CG weekly call (5 min)
https://app.rallly.co/invite/IWNpZiVCsFZd
* eP: *sharing screen*
* ... our current slot has 13 Persons - the alternative being Friday but there are many "only if needed" there.
* CB: I agree. I would propose to keep it for now. It is good to have that overview, so we know our time slot is not "the worst".
* ... and we should keep this in mind to check on the community regularly
* eP: Let's keep it this way, and be open to switching for a particular meeting.
* CB: There would also be the option to have alternating times to accomodating different time zones (e.g. one week good for asia-pacific, one for EU, ...)
* eP: Will send an email.

### CG workspace setup (3 min)
* eP:
    * https://solidproject.org/TR
    * http://ujg.specs.openuji.org/
    * https://speculator.openuji.dev/
    * https://speculator-demo.vercel.app/
    * https://speculator-demo.vercel.app/vocab/ns/
* ... A short lightning talk, also considering the 2026 bundle.
* ... The technical reports page is not optimized for mobile.
* ... there is "speculator", which is a tool compatible with Re-Spec.
* ... what is impressing me that whenever I open an issue, they basically have a PR ready the next day.
* ... They seem very responsive to feature requests, e.g. for C4 diagrams.
* ... Comparing their website to Solid TR, it looks more modern.
* ... There is also search across different specs - there is package for this. 
* ... There is also a package to render vocabularies.
* ... Very responsive devs, it looks very presentable.
* ... We might want to look into this.
* ... What do people think?
* LD: It does look nice. But I'd like to know more about performance (bundle size etc) and accessiblity for users.
* eP: Given that it uses Astro, I believe everything is server-rendered.
* ... it is something to investigate. Most importantly, we could rely on them, just having a wishlist and then they gift it to us like Santa.
* ... I'd encourage everone to look into this.
* th: The quick response time is due to AI, no?
* eP: I am pretty sure that the use AI, but the code works. I did not review the code. What is your concern? Maintainability?
* th: Yes, a friend vibe-coded a good app until it broke, and he could not fix it.
* eP: Well, with good tests this should not be a problem, but we should look into the code a little bit.
* ...: I would not demonise AI too much here
* CB: Will it be maintained over time? I'd be rather cautious to to rely on something by somebody who vanshies in 6 months or a year.
* SC (from Jitsi chat):
 >I'd love ot understand why https://solidproject.org/TR/ is being trashed when the complainers or people that find it inefficient haven't made effort to improve it or even raised an issue on a particular need. The whole discussion seems like a yet another effort to chase something without seemingly understanding the background or decisions behind https://solidproject.org/TR/ itself. And again, this just seems more of the lets trash / dismiss existing stuff without any real purpose. Happy to give a backgrounder.

### Demo: SAI - part 1 (10 min)
* eP: https://sai.js.org
* will provide a recording in the coming weeks.

### 2026 CG Roadmap (15+ min)
* CB: https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/issues/54
* CB: Please indicate your interest under the sub-issues such that I can adequately reflect the group's interest when presenting the proposed work items at Solid World in February.

## Actions
* At weekly meeting on 2026-02-25, CB to present https://github.com/uvdsl/solid-authorization-app
* eP to send email concluding scheduling poll
