# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2026-05-06T14:00:00Z at using the SolidOS stack, but I have heard no arguments as to what issues they think that raises.  No, it is not fully compliant with RDF-JS, but there are easy ways around the incompatibilities and many features available in the SolidOS stack not available in other approaches.
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* Theo - thhck 

## Present

* elf Pavlik
* Tim Berners Lee
* [Luke Dary](https://w3c.social/@lukedary)
* Roberto S.K. Breitman (ODI)
* Grace Elcock (observing)
* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com) (Stony Brook University)
* Precious Oritsedere (ODI)
* [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
* [Rui Zhao](https://me.ryey.icu)

## Regrets

*

---

## Scribe

* Luke
* Backup: Precious

### Meeting Guidelines

* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! Please introduce yourself.

---

## Introductions
* None

## Announcements
* None

## Topics

### Action review ( 10 min )
* eP ✅ to schedule Rui's demo for 2026-05-06
* CB to split OIDC changes into two PRs (absent)
* JW to PR MUST -> SHOULD for Client Credentials
* JW ✅ to write a paragraph, close to what Jeff, Aaron and Pavlik said about use cases. 

### SoSy 2026 debrief ( 20 min )

* round table of our impression from SoSy
* PO - amazing, got to meet people; demos were good to see; discussion with eP about putting some of them on the site
* eP - amazing to meet people in-person; whole Solid Week present. Productive CG side, need incubation space (priority for WG and CG), already some discussion about incubation; hope to make it sooner for a similar gathering
* JW - great to see everyone in-person; liked more apps at the Symposium; lots of great demos; felt like all the various groups gained some cohesion to move forward
* RB - great seeing everyone and how aligned we all are; felt like a community, not just individuals; hackathon showed how fast people were able to move from idea to implementation
* timbl - great to see everyone; fireside chat; loves the momentum of the movement; AC discussion
* JW - more to come on AC meeting and "theory of change" with a document detailing the vision
* Theo - great to meet everyone; new room to discuss web components and how to integrate them with Solid-related concepts; discussion with JW about tooling; how to refresh the solidcommunity.net site; impression that we sometimes struggle to know what others are working on (duplicated and redundant efforts)
* JW - Conversation with Nico about end-to-end encryption (E2EE) in NexGraph, made the case for having a CG work item for spec of client-to-client with e2e encryption
* eP - +1 to discussing E2EE, social CG has discussion about the topic as well, chat channel doesn't get used much
* JW - proposes to raise it as a new work item in the repo, with the hope that Nico can delegate someone to propose a spec to the CG
* .. - should web components be a work item as well? 
* LD - thinks it will give people an element of solid functionalities. Red Hat is also a good design system and thinks the idea of web components will improve development.
* RZ - postpone demo to next week
* .. - attended WG meeting and viewed sessions remotely
* .. - I was at the Authz Session, organized by Pavlik, doing a presentation about the DToU work, and some brief relation between other related work (we all had different work demonstrated). Guess Pavlik has introduced most of the session already. Unfortunately wasn't unable to attend the rest most of the sessions due to being remote. Will try to be in person next time -- beucracy should be resolved by then!
* EB - was at Linked web storage and Symposium. Found it interesting,and also thinks everyones ideas and discussions are going in an interesting direction too.

### Discussion

* JW - can the E2EE proceed without Nico?
* Theo - Solid didn't consider E2EE from the outset, but NexGraph did, Inrupt may have information 
* EP - suggests looping in Nico and anyone else involved in it. Thinks it will be good to have someone who has implemented it previously on the call.
* Theo - open call for other topics
* eP - request for Solid 26 update
* JW - Letting tensions settle and will have conversation with CB as editors about where to take it to have it published (implementers guide)
* Theo - release for Solid 26 update?
* JW - what was released at SoSy was tools, use cases, and documentation from ODI; still able to form the adoption groups to bring implementers into groups; decouple that adoption activity from the implementer activity
* eP - do whatever is needed for gathering feedback and working in a more organized way; unclear on inclusion versus implemented; 
* JW - reflect what is implemented - where in the WebID guidance do we deviate from that
* eP - Protected triple, WAC v. ACP or those types of things documented
* JW - re: protected triple - note in WebID Profile section mentioning the triple; parts should be split out into other proposals v. in the implementers guide; removed security and privacy sections
* eP - Do we need to change the OIDC if there is are things that are not implemented? Questioning consistency of reasoning for inclusion where there are things included with little or no implementation. What's the bar for implementation to be included? Maybe Solid 27 a better target.
* JW - showing documentation about non-conformance items in spec (e.g. OIDC issuer modification)
* eP - possibility of mitigating the risk not documented
* timbl - Patch not being implemented by servers mentioned
* JW - many servers DO, but some DO NOT, wording is to point out that one may find servers who don't. ETAG is reasonable fall-back for most cases.
* eP - quick note on PATCH; didn't include SPARQL update which is most widely deployed;
* JW - discussion on GH addressed these by way of Solid being HTTP standard (where SPARQL update is not within the protocol)
* Theo - Question about implementation assessment for inclusion of items into Solid 26/27; how do AI skills get included or how can they find those solutions? 
* LD - thinks it will be really ideal we should have a well-known parse , and provide MCPs that will have specs as part of the tooling rather than having a repo.
* JW - re: TNE's presentation at the Symposium- they took snapshots of most Solid projects and resources for the bot to consume. Usinf coding tools like claude to discover these. Suggest having dev.solidproject.org - where these skilss and specs versions, sdks etc should live, use Context 7 to discover these documents and pull them into a session in the AI tool. This can be an experimentation to determine if it will be a robust solution.
* ep - raised concerns about security problems related to this; no documentation of mitigation that currently exists (e.g. - separate WebID from Solid storage)
* JW - 
* eP - Add clarification about addressing the security problem; we just need to let people know that they can eliminate the security problem
* JW - refers to the documentation on hosting WebIDs.
* LD - request that a note or link to the content describing the non-requirement of WebID colocation be near the security warning
* 


### Demos

### Solid Planner: Simple yet useful weekly planning app ( 20 min )

* RZ: A local-first TODO app, but focused on automatic weekly planning to get things done

## Actions 

 - Theo have a meeting with Niko for e2ee 
 - JW- have a discussion with Christoph about the way forward for Solid26
 - JW: propose change on spec on point 3.1

## Decisions

## Links
- [Solid Web Components Matrix Chat](https://matrix.to/#/#solid_webcomponents:matrix.org)
- 
