# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2026-01-28T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)

## Present

* Precious Oritsedere
* Alain Bourgeois
* Paul Worrall
* Jesse Wright
* Oli Bage
* [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
* James Radley
* theo @thhck
* Luke Dary
* [Ted Thibodeau Jr](https://www.linkedin.com/in/macted/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) // GitHub:[@TallTed](https://github.com/TallTed) // Mastodon:[@TallTed](https://mastodon.social/@TallTed)

## Regrets

* Christoph Braun - [uvdsl](https://github.com/uvdsl)

## Scribes

*

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines

* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! Please introduce yourself.

---



## Introductions

*


## Actions Review

*  
 
  
## Topics

### W3C Breakouts Day 2026 (2 min)
https://github.com/w3c/breakouts-day-2026

* eP: Would someone like to work on organizing a session?

### FedCM - Quick Update (10 min)
https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/issues/71

* th/eP:

### 2026 ODI Roadmap

* JW: 

Scale 1-4 (order of priority)

Bundle content:
 - Standards releases:
    - 1. Solid Core protocol
    - 1. OIDC
    - 1. WebID
    - 1. OneOf(WAC|ACP) access control spec
    - 2. Notifications (if ready)
    - 2. Access Requests (if ready)
 - Best Practice guides:
    - 4. Verifiable Credentialss
    - 3. Container Structure
    - 4. Best practises for provenance & metadata with Solid (PROV-O), (ODRL)"

Involvement in Solid best practises:
 - Prov-o:
     - Lead: ODI
     - Writing: 
     - Reviewing: Paul Worrall, Oli Bage, Rui
     - Scope: "How do you advertise PROV-O contraints from a Pod, e.g., using a .ordl file"
 - ODRL:
     - Lead: ODI
     - Writing: Rui(?)
     - Reviewing: James Radley, Denotic Data (volunteered by Oli), Beatriz (volunteered by Jesse), Rui
     - Scope: "How do you advertise ODRL contraints from a Pod, e.g., using a .ordl file"
 - Container Structure:
     - Lead: ODI
     - Writing: Paul Worall, James Radley, elf Pavlik
     - Reviewing: James Radley, 
     - Scope: "How do you organise data within a Solid Pod"
     - Additional Scope: Document known practises for organisation of data in Pod's (in a primer?)
 - Verifiable Credentials:
     - Lead: ODI
     - Writing: Inrupt(?), SolidLab(?), KIT(?)
     - Reviewing: Paul Worall
     - Scope: ""
 - Access Requests:
     - Lead: ODI
     - Writing: elf Pavlik (also interested in security to prevent spamming), 
     - Reviewing: James Radley, Rui Zhao
     - Scope: Most likely needs to be scoped to just 
 - Notifications:
     - Lead: ODI
     - Writing: elf Pavlik 
     - Reviewing:
     - Scope: 

For the next call we want to clarify the _active editors_ for each of the documents.

### 2026 CG Roadmap (10+ min)
https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/issues/54

* eP:

## Actions

*

## Meetily transcrip

### Meeting Summary: <Add Title here>

**Meeting ID:** meeting-7862cb33-e148-424d-8adb-1d4f535a8a45
**Date:** January 28, 2026 at 04:05 PM
**Copied on:** January 28, 2026 at 04:13 PM

---

**Summary**

**Key Decisions**

* The meeting focused on establishing a clear roadmap for the upcoming release of the WTC, outlining timelines, priorities, and resource allocation.

* A decision was made to prioritize the document review and initial drafting process for the WTC roadmap, acknowledging the need for ongoing collaboration and feedback.

* There was a discussion about leveraging existing documentation and potentially establishing a dedicated editor for the WTC roadmap.

**Key Decisions**

* The WTC roadmap will be phased, beginning with a small-scale pilot and potentially expanding over time.

* Resource allocation for the WTC roadmap will be based on a defined scope and timeline, with an emphasis on achievable milestones.

* A central repository for WTC related documentation will be established, and contributions should be made within this repository.

**Action Items**

| **Owner** | **Task**              | **Due**   | **Reference Transcript Segment** | **Segment Time Stamp** |
| --------- | --------------------- | --------- | -------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Patrick   | Draft Roadmap         | Next Week |                                  |                        |
| James     | Branching for Roadmap | Next Week |                                  |                        |
| Chris     | Branching for Roadmap | Next Week |                                  |                        |
| Robert    | Branching for Roadmap | Next Week |                                  |                        |
|           | Document review       | Next Week |                                  |                        |

**Discussion Highlights**

* There's a need to consolidate the WTC documentation into a centralized repository for easier access and collaboration.

* Establishing a clear workflow for document review and drafting is crucial for ensuring the roadmap is timely and accurate.

* The current document management system may need to be updated to better support the development of the roadmap and facilitate efficient collaboration among the team.

### Transcript of the Meeting: meeting-7862cb33-e148-424d-8adb-1d4f535a8a45 - Meeting 2026-01-28_15-04-27

#### Date: 28/01/2026

[00:01] Yeah.
[00:03] Scribing would someone like as a back up to my new scribing or would just
[00:10] Rely on on the AI.
[00:13] That's right.
[00:17] Yeah, I'll drop the meeting notes here in the chat. What's
[00:22] Or simply we will just go with the AI.
[00:32] Okay, welcome everyone. Please add yourself to present.
[00:36] You have to be loaded in.
[00:43] Oh
[00:47] Put the FCM demo at the end.
[00:50] Hopefully by Derek will resolve.
[00:52] But the first thing.
[00:58] Announcement.
[01:00] There will be WTC breakup days in March, end of March. You can follow the link to see the details.
[01:06] Uh
[01:08] I will not really have time for the
[01:51] Yeah.
[01:58] It's working for me and I can hear you.
[02:01] Oh but I I'm only seeing two.
[02:03] Yes.
[02:09] Yeah, I think we for a second like people dropped out one by one. What?
[02:13] And then I also got reconnected and then people started coming back one by one.
[02:18] I don't know if it was just me or or
[02:20] Yeah, that we ended up I I thought we were in a breakout session or something.
[02:25] Okay.
[02:27] Uh okay, let's hope that it will not no no no no no no no no no no no it's just being G six. I if it keeps happening we may need to consider just us using something else next time. For now, let's just go with what we have.
[02:40] So I was saying please add yourself to present. I posted a link which already disappeared of course so that you see
[02:49] Here is a part, this idea set to present.
[02:53] Uh get back to agenda.
[02:57] The first thing.
[02:58] In March W T C will have breakout.
[03:01] Sway.
[03:02] I everyone's invited to present something, we could do something for solid. Myself personally, I will not really have time to try to take leadership on that.
[03:12] But if anyone would like to work on organizing something, just please check the link. There are instructions out of there and we can follow up.
[03:20] next week and week after that. But again we would be somewhere who would be
[03:25] volunteering to be responsible for that. I cannot do it myself, but uh
[03:30] It's I think a good idea if you can present something, organized something.
[03:34] You just in the mouth then?
[03:37] The next topic is
[03:39] Tio, are you
[03:42] Are you okay with the matching words? We can do the quick demo or talk to you.
[03:51] Okay, I will assume that we cannot do the demo.
[03:54] So the next topic will be the roadmap, ODI and CG roadmap.
[03:59] So my quick question I will start recruiting my screen.
[04:05] Yeah.
[04:08] Just one second, please.
[04:17] Can you see Hack and D?
[04:25] You see special now?
[04:28] Okay. So uh Christoph prepared this spreadsheet like an overview about different CG proposed uh items for the roadmap.
[04:37] My question is that I put it in front.
[04:39] Is anyone present?
[04:41] We'd like to say that something is very urgent to discuss today.
[04:45] But we need to make sure that we allocate some time in the air because I would like to focus on the
[04:49] coordination with the OBI.
[04:52] But at the same time, if someone thinks that something they proposed is very urgent and we should make sure that we bring it up to date, one of the specific items, I would like to capture it
[05:01] right now. So Edward only called
[05:04] I propose few items for me, none of them are kind of urgent for today, they can wait for the next week to type into specifics.
[05:11] If anyone else has something that it's
[05:21] Okay, hearing now with
[05:24] Make our best effort to come back to the overall roadmap.
[05:29] to the ODI uh roadmap first. So Jesse and Olive please go ahead and take it away from you.
[05:36] Thank you, Patrick.
[05:39] I'm wondering if the sheet uh
[05:43] actually be the best sort of
[05:45] True. So
[05:46] For those who weren't here last week.
[05:50] the summary of what uh Ollie and I presented.
[05:52] It is.
[05:53] the ODI roadmap for helping get adoption of
[05:57] All solid.
[05:58] There's three core areas of work that we have at the moment.
[06:03] The first is out.
[06:04] internal and
[06:08] Communication.
[06:11] Thing.
[06:17] Communications.
[06:19] And a
[06:21] Um
[06:23] community engagement.
[06:26] With the
[06:27] CG effectively.
[06:29] my screen to talk through this but I think we can share my whole screen at once.
[06:37] We were then talking about
[06:39] Some kind of
[06:41] We called it solid one point oh in the last call, but we're not attacked.
[06:44] Name.
[06:47] A select part of the solid specifications.
[06:50] Plus some best practice guidelines that we can
[06:54] send out to different people that we want to either engage with or re-engage with.
[07:00] With solid.
[07:01] And those individuals fall into these
[07:06] Entities fall into these different
[07:08] engagement groups for percent or adoption.
[07:10] So that can include individual incoming to his summit.
[07:13] out of a lot of the people that tend to it.
[07:18] Enterprise, that's government, that's professional.
[07:21] So what we've come up with
[07:25] Put it in the chat.
[07:27] is a set of what we consider to be
[07:30] the priority areas for all what we include in
[07:33] Yeah.
[07:34] release of call.
[07:41] for you to try and work with and attempt to adopt and then give us feedback and requirements so that we can iterate those parts of the space.
[07:49] And then some best practice guidelines based on areas that people commonly have questioned.
[07:54] questions when trying to include solid.
[07:57] I
[07:58] I think captured in the
[08:00] CG.
[08:02] road map which um our public had
[08:05] most of the pieces of work required to get this bundle contact.
[08:11] And those areas are
[08:13] working on and access requests.
[08:16] For the solid CG.
[08:18] Those areas are getting a working notion.
[08:21] notification stack for the solid CG I don't know if I've actually got the notifications item.
[08:25] Yeah.
[08:28] Thank you, we can see that of public. That's fantastic.
[08:31] And then as far as best practice guides go, a lot of people are using Verify credentials with Solid at the moment, so best practices for how to use Verify credentials in Solid.
[08:45] applications you're trying to build because it's always questions about container management that container structure and solid.
[08:51] And then best practices for how to use prominence and usage controls. OER L is used a lot, I know there's
[08:59] some people interested in consenting this call that I asked to come to this call. Hi James.
[09:04] Um so I from an ODI perspective
[09:09] would uh like to
[09:12] Well and ODI is going to support in all of these.
[09:16] Areas.
[09:18] as far as collaborating with the community group I would be interested in having
[09:24] the people that would want to work on these work items because they have an opinion about the technical direction because they're
[09:30] Yeah.
[09:34] To put their hand forward so we can
[09:36] Spin up.
[09:37] uh kind of task forces of people to work on each of these.
[09:42] And that's kind of falling into the broader.
[09:45] roadmap here where we need task forces to deliver all of the different uh
[09:50] Oh Alex go on his list.
[09:53] You've got a question.
[09:56] Uh y y y y y y y y y yes, so since AI is criving, like let's all try to make mention the name of the next speaker, something you just see.
[10:03] Uh my question here is that again I I'm not a project manager, I have very basic understanding, but from my understanding you can have either fixed timeline or fixed
[10:14] Scope of the Liverpool.
[10:16] So I understand if you have a
[10:18] Fixed timeline.
[10:20] What you try to deliver is flexible.
[10:24] you may hope for like certain amount, but if you want to respect the fixed timeline you probably in practice at this cases you will do to
[10:33] have some flexibility. So my question if that's the case, do you have prioritization to say
[10:38] those things we do you in order and then maybe you know if we don't get the minimum thing we don't want to get we will just
[10:44] About the mission and and maybe postponed the release.
[10:47] Or we we we we we we we we kind of try to hit the the the the the the the the the the the the the deadline but then we need to say okay now we we we we hit the gifts so those other things will not make it
[10:58] Go ahead,
[11:04] We can
[11:07] Hand the the the the the the the the the the the the the
[11:09] I I see you're muted on the thing with your hand.
[11:13] So maybe that's where you need to unmute.
[11:21] While Ollie is unmuting.
[11:24] I am also at
[11:34] Please keep in mind that chat will disappear, so maybe drop it also on the hack and the
[11:43] I think maybe maybe for some reason Jitsu really likes using my phone's micro.
[11:47] Even though my phone is not I
[11:53] Planning side.
[11:54] So there's a mix going on here.
[11:55] the ultimate goal is a big solid release with lots of adoption from
[12:00] Greece that's probably sometime towards the end of this year or next year.
[12:03] we have an opportunity to promote solid uh
[12:07] at the solid symposium. So we want to have as much of this done as we can.
[12:11] for a stable package of of artifacts by the symposium. But if we can't get it done then we'll just do it NA releases later on. Um and then
[12:20] We'll have more resources that can be put to bear on the park.
[12:24] It's amazing if we can get more into the kind of the side.
[12:30] how individuals use it developers and government.
[12:35] Yeah.
[12:37] Yeah.
[12:39] Yeah.
[12:40] specific timeline versus specific
[12:43] quality levels of the work that we need to do.
[12:48] Um
[12:49] Thank you, actually I'll I'll I I I I I I I I I I'll queue up.
[12:53] Yeah.
[12:54] So
[12:56] It's not.
[13:00] it would be nice to keep it in three months, but it would take five months. So do we have like a cutoff or you think if we like have those requirements met
[13:09] Hopefully before the symposium we want to release or
[13:13] If we don't see that minimum.
[13:16] I see J C al D is prioritize. So yeah, so for me it would be very important to see like what's the kind of cut you say, okay, this is enough to call it like ATS or whatever we call it, and then
[13:28] Yeah, it's a small enough.
[13:30] We have some makeup.
[13:37] So whatever that you know that
[13:39] Set of all the taxes.
[13:41] And now the way this is prioritized currently is that you know Jesse's done a pretty good estimation of how much effort's actually required and we've got a good idea of which OEI resources can be put on it. So it seems realistic as a plan.
[13:53] But there's um also there's always variability in it, or there's you know, two months of uh
[13:59] The time.
[14:00] And uh and a small amount of words too here. So um
[14:04] you know, maybe maybe some things will slip out of it. That's okay. Um the core of it though is to point to things that are already quite stable.
[14:11] So you know, the the vast majority of the work.
[14:15] has already been done and this is about us telling a much broader group of people about it.
[14:20] And then there are some gaps, you know, uh particularly rounds. Um
[14:26] authentication and access control and and some other areas. But it it it it it it it it it it's not critical that we finish that by the time we do the release, but it would be good if we had, you know, a guide that we could publish with it.
[14:38] Does that make sense?
[14:41] Yes, thank you, Audie. So again if a a public here.
[14:45] Uh
[14:46] So I I also try to understand like first Jesse if you see realistic to get all of that.
[14:53] And also by saying done
[14:56] For me.
[14:57] I if we want to like resolve known issues, I think it's very ambitious to say that we resolve
[15:03] Many of the no issues with all those
[15:05] Work items in three months.
[15:08] Well it's real realistic that we can make it very clear that there are no issues and release it with uh transparent saying hey we know there are very specific issues with with those.
[15:19] Thanks.
[15:20] But uh you know that that that's what we have at this moment.
[15:24] Is the strategy that we try to address the issues or we will for now just document them and and try to, you know, just package it mostly then then actually you know write uh spectacular fixes.
[15:35] Mombats, for example.
[15:37] Yeah, it it's absolutely fine to have like work in progress issues as part of the patch.
[15:45] spec document everybody's gonna suddenly implement. The reason for doing the big promotional activity is to get more more more more more more more more more more more groups interesting in interested in implementing it, get more end customer feedback on where they find it easy to use and where it's hard, what the blockers are.
[16:01] and then we will prioritise those blockers in the second part of the year.
[16:04] And then by the time we get to the end of the year we'll have sold some of the bigger blockers, we'll've resolved some of those big open items from the
[16:10] The kind of um symposium uh
[16:13] Or release.
[16:14] Um we should get to the point where there's an actually quite stable, quite usable set of artifacts to do with solids that people can self serve from that point.
[16:21] So in you know, in twenty twenty seven the use case adoption might be a much broader range of companies and individuals and developers.
[16:29] who now have everything they need to go and build applications using Solid successfully and then happen to exchange data between them and
[16:35] you know, have a broader adoption of web ID and you know all the things that we need to have.
[16:41] Mm-hmm.
[16:51] Seems like your own meat.
[16:53] Oh, sorry.
[16:55] Yeah, I I don't see anyone on the queue so I don't want to monopolize the conversation, so is anyone
[17:01] present who would like to ask a question
[17:04] Sharp.
[17:05] Well I I have maybe questions for people I don't think.
[17:12] Anyone on the call would like to jump in?
[17:17] Okay, here not us, please don't hesitate to to raise your hand. So I I will go with
[17:22] Another question.
[17:25] Uh I can participate, but we'll start reviewing things and seeing but the listed uh documents, drafts, and CG reports, have some missing note issues, and maybe start making a pull request with
[17:38] All spec editing tools have some kind of way of adding inline issues. So I can start with making two requests for
[17:45] For those?
[17:47] Uh my question is from OBI side
[17:50] Do you already have like specific
[17:52] who and how much time I would say a week would be working.
[17:56] And that's we come up.
[17:58] No more or less like what what we expect with processing that and and and and and and and and and and and
[18:06] where we're working on
[18:09] Mm.
[18:12] It it's kinda we're going to bring in the resources needed.
[18:15] T.
[18:16] likely get these items delivered by it one.
[18:23] And this to make it.
[18:25] I I think it's a process.
[18:27] Match you will be directly in inv involved in this process.
[18:30] Yeah.
[18:33] will be directly involved in this process.
[18:42] like be very clear who would be leading the this effort. Like I can I can not to volunteer myself. I know that Christoph offered that he would be able to to take some degree of leadership but he's not present today.
[18:53] he added his regrets to to the part, so we can check with that. Uh I I I I'm very confident he he's capable capable of pushing things forward.
[19:02] Again I'll try to do my best to at least make full requests with email issues.
[19:06] Well I think if if you want with the timeline of three months have the kind of package ready to to ship
[19:12] I think it it's like uh specific people to to have specific amount of time to to really follow up on requests and and
[19:19] And I get get get get get get get get get get get this uh ready.
[19:23] I I want to jump a little to the the the the the the the the the the the bigger roadmap before that like does anyone have uh
[19:29] Question about who we
[19:31] just this couple of you dress your own if you want to just jump you.
[19:34] Maybe some call up.
[19:36] Uh
[19:37] I want to
[19:38] Flywoman.
[19:41] For today.
[19:43] What I would like to do is
[19:47] Like training is drawing the hole because they've got
[19:49] interest in
[19:52] Yeah.
[19:54] T
[19:56] From the OEI side.
[19:57] interested to go through the
[20:01] listed in order.
[20:04] See who in this call wants to contribute to those items.
[20:08] A few minutes.
[20:12] the work that people want to do, especially one of the best practices.
[20:15] practices guides for Program O ERL.
[20:17] because that's the least law scope piece of work here.
[20:20] uh the standard release is I think fairly well defined.
[20:23] Notifications and access requests. We kinda know what the scope involved in that is. Best practice guide. We've got ideas, but I
[20:31] other people in the community group have ideas as well, so it would be good to
[20:34] as a CG scope out those pieces of work around our credentials, container structures, and best practice guides.
[20:42] and see who is going to be contributors that I can put over my gala lead.
[20:48] I know there's other people interested in those kind of best practices, so
[20:52] Let's see who else wants to contribute of what they would want to contribute and guess go based on that.
[21:04] Have we lost our like.
[21:11] Yeah, that looks like a network failure.
[21:14] Oh. Um while he is now. Shall we make a
[21:18] All this.
[21:19] process given there's no other chairs in the call.
[21:28] Okay.
[21:29] No, I'm not even calling it.
[21:32] Okay.
[21:35] I see another problem joining
[21:40] Yeah, I think we
[21:48] Working through.
[21:54] Joining
[21:58] The
[22:05] people have new contributions that they want to make.
[22:08] Starting with
[22:12] Practices.
[22:14] Is there anyone here who wants to contribute to
[22:17] Work on
[22:21] General problem.
[22:36] No.
[22:41] Who's got experience of using
[22:45] Who we should be reviewing whatever
[22:48] There's some work items here that we'll do we'll have them done.
[22:52] back to the community group but it would be good to do a pre pre pre engagement or
[22:58] technology well.
[23:04] that might be the right way to engage with this group. So we're very conscious of the time commitment that we're asking for here and try to squeeze it into the
[23:11] you know, the one hour a week or maybe an hour and a half.
[23:14] that you might have to think about these things, but not spend a lot more time in that.
[23:20] Paul, is that you volunteering or you commenting?
[23:24] I think I did some
[23:26] We provided
[23:29] Five years ago with the DWP.
[23:31] Um
[23:32] So uh so
[23:34] It's been quite a long time ago.
[23:36] Um I don't know whether they've changed since then or
[23:41] My memory.
[23:44] But at the moment I couldn't take responsibility for leaving that or anything. I couldn't make that
[23:48] commitment at the moment, but definitely have a
[23:51] something to contribute. I just gotta refresh my memory.
[23:57] I'm in a similar position. We d we used it in C D M C
[23:59] five years ago as the kind of one of the ways of showing it.
[24:04] We looked at it a little bit with uh D Props.
[24:07] standard from the OMG last year as well.
[24:09] Not an opt not an acting hands on practitioner myself.
[24:14] Yeah, slightly that's why I'm slightly reluctant to volunteer mode.
[24:23] Tentatively marking Paul, yourself and Ollie as bruise.
[24:26] Review uh
[24:31] Odi is happy.
[24:33] on that front.
[24:37] document.
[24:39] then on the audal uh
[24:42] Use it.
[24:47] Again happy for
[24:49] O DI
[24:51] To lead on
[24:53] This one.
[24:54] would anyone
[24:56] Interested in the
[24:59] Making or reviewing at least.
[25:00] Particular specification.
[25:06] Yeah, I think I'll be
[25:08] Interest in that part of it.
[25:11] Need free viewing.
[25:18] Yeah, and Jesse, I'll speak on behalf of a little startup called Diontic Data, but they're at the event I'm speaking at tomorrow, so I can introduce you to the the team there.
[25:27] But
[25:27] They build um
[25:29] um a solution on IBRL.
[25:31] for the finance industry on market data contracts.
[25:34] information extraction and and automation.
[25:37] And they they're very active in that community, so I'd I'll volunteer them to be involved in some way, probably as a reviewer rather than a writer, but uh
[25:45] And Whitman Smith is the kind of one of the co
[25:48] Chairs of the Market Working Group on OBRL.
[25:51] Definitely want to be involved in it.
[25:54] Sure, I'll add them. I'll also
[25:57] I I expect Beatrice SDs and Hogan solar labels like Beatrice's
[26:03] Oh near the owner.
[26:05] Standard as it's hard bandit.
[26:07] So I expect they would want to
[26:09] review that document at the very least. So all
[26:13] Yeah.
[26:18] Fantastic.
[26:20] Then we've got
[26:27] we have been going through the
[26:33] Items in the bundle concept.
[26:35] ODI is uh
[26:37] uh willing to push
[26:40] The work for
[26:41] identifying who in this call would like to either contribute to that document,
[26:46] or who would like to review that document.
[26:50] And if we have time towards the end, scope out.
[26:54] needs to be done, especially for best practice guides.
[26:59] The next one I
[27:01] I would then suggest we look at is container structures.
[27:08] Unless you want to take it back.
[27:10] Oh.
[27:12] Oh, go ahead, go ahead.
[27:16] So yeah, you're good. You're
[27:31] Do you we're gonna be back just in a second.
[27:40] So we
[27:42] Then all
[27:43] So this is
[27:45] When people come to Solid, they always ask
[27:51] This is
[27:53] Th there's many solutions that
[27:59] Parts of sci using
[28:01] shape trees to
[28:05] How to
[28:06] Right data to a pod.
[28:08] the goal or the vision I have for this best practice.
[28:14] Yeah.
[28:15] In the interim while not all of those kind of
[28:18] solutions are widely, widely adopted.
[28:26] How you should
[28:30] your containers when you're writing.
[28:32] today if you're not ending on any kind of application control space.
[28:37] Yeah.
[28:41] Oh, I have to
[28:42] I had to put my hand up to that'cause I'm starting to use that now.
[28:46] It'll be wrong not to volunteer. I mean
[28:48] It's a nightmare, I have no idea what it's it.
[28:51] And walk.
[28:52] Castle would you want to put a.
[28:56] I'm mine and I as I say I can't commit to taking a leave leave on my butt.
[29:03] Amazing. I'll put I'll put you down.
[29:05] It uh
[29:11] But you put your hand up.
[29:13] I go after things.
[29:15] I was just gonna say um
[29:18] Yeah, I'm happy to
[29:19] review and work on that'cause we've got to go through that excisive structuring quite a lot of data.
[29:25] Maybe I'm watering.
[29:26] The list.
[29:34] Could you
[29:35] go back to the chairs role of
[29:37] Thanks.
[29:40] James do you want to pull up?
[29:46] J does it automatically. So
[29:48] Uh when it detects you speaking, your audio it will lower the the hand.
[29:52] We have
[29:53] Okay, see you have CO
[29:56] Thank you.
[29:57] Pio did you saw your
[30:01] We cannot hear it here, so that's
[30:04] Interrupt us with everybody with your audio working.
[30:07] Okay, I I I'll r I'll read uh Tio is asking on chart, wanted to ask for a quick on O D R L and Pro O before we move to the next point.
[30:17] Yeah.
[30:20] I can I propose that
[30:22] We
[30:23] Finish the
[30:27] identification of who would want to be involved and um.
[30:29] And do that as a scoping discussion if we've
[30:37] And he also said uh I'll have a look after the videos.
[30:44] Okay, so Ray, we have a bit like the
[30:54] Uh
[30:55] Actually I think
[30:56] I wanted to ask the same question as the old but
[31:01] Or clarification.
[31:04] Uh is the ODR part of the provenance story or is it is it a separate story for policies?
[31:13] So on
[31:15] f is for policies, what I saw.
[31:18] in response to this also quit down.
[31:20] This is our scope, right?
[31:23] What?
[31:24] I agree with this a um
[31:27] Anyone who wants to contribute can have their own two cents.
[31:30] uh is best practices around
[31:34] how to include those policies in a podcast.
[31:37] Uh okay.
[31:38] demos done.
[31:45] resource in the part and linking to that via a link header.
[31:50] So it's just best practices on how to do it.
[31:53] advertise those policies.
[31:55] from a pod so that everyone's doing it in a consistent manner.
[32:00] Right.
[32:02] So the important is for like doing some contributions or reviewing documents if that is the case I'd be interested in that part as well. And also for the
[32:10] Fantastic. Thank you, Ray. That's really appreciated.
[32:17] Yeah, Michael, go ahead.
[32:21] Oh I was I was I was going for that uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh
[32:24] Uh regarding the point about organization and
[32:30] Unfortunately, I I I I I I I I I I I I I suppose this is uh related to uh
[32:37] Uh but I also wanted to remind that there is a group practitioner's group which
[32:42] is not uh involved in this call or uh
[32:46] And uh if uh uh for the best practices of this
[32:51] I would like to encourage you again to reach out to to this to this group of early implementers.
[32:56] Which can uh really contribute to uh to
[33:06] I think they're a good set of uh
[33:09] reviewers especially.
[33:10] Implementers are the kind of people that will be
[33:14] So if we got an initial drop ready, we're going to have to do it.
[33:16] We can take that to the practice say.
[33:27] I think you are missing uh.
[33:29] I I think I think it's it's it's too way though, as I said. Uh
[33:38] Thank you. So I will go with my question now is Abd for the AI scribe.
[33:42] Eh
[33:45] Myself I'm I'm happy to join the containers part.
[33:53] Reach a rough consensus on a best practice.
[33:55] Practice.
[33:57] actually document known practices with drones and conversation. So I I think it's sometimes nice to say hey we
[34:05] to have some kind of rough consensus that we can, you know, say okay, for as for today, this probably could be more best practice.
[34:13] You should not get stuck in always trying to reach up for sensors and then endlessly argue that why someone doesn't think it's a best practice.
[34:21] We still be open to say okay.
[34:24] Opinions are divided, so we document the same three different practices.
[34:28] And for each of them we can say hey, that's known
[34:38] What are the trade offs like every solution has some trade offs so try tr tr tr tr tr tr tr tr tr try to learn those
[34:43] Instead of like calling it best, you just call it slow. Does it sound visible for cases where we don't have references?
[34:52] I yeah, I'm wondering what the structure of that would be.
[34:58] 'Cause you you
[35:00] In W three C LAN implementation.
[35:03] guidance, but you've also got like you've got auxiliary resources that we can produce with fact documents.
[35:10] Oh
[35:12] Well.
[35:12] Implementation.
[35:15] Reports.
[35:17] uh use case and requirements documents. I think that I think there is a well known document in there that we could
[35:23] fit this well into but I'm not sure what that
[35:26] document it is I mean more well versed in my W three C.
[35:30] I mean I don't know if you talked about primers.
[35:33] Yeah.
[35:34] Yeah so again how how how how how how how how how how how how we call it I think it's secondary as for the format if it's
[35:39] Talk about containers, because say okay, three known practices are type indexes and I'm happy to contribute privacy related considerations and so on.
[35:49] For example, data registration that's side. You can also like talk about you know that these happened were supposed to do specific authorization approach or so on.
[35:58] Yeah. And for example like the Vito?
[36:03] hard code and pathway and and and don't use either type it export data better because it are three own practices.
[36:09] And we can have a overview for each one, that's what we see as a kind of positive part, clicity, as a wrong cutting.
[36:16] That's what we see as a trade or as a code, maybe you know it's not kind of flexible enough, or maybe there's a privacy issues.
[36:23] So that would be my idea that in some cases are non practices and just
[36:29] You know, you need to pick something from it.
[36:32] And then that's not the consequences of all the choices.
[36:38] I think
[36:40] I I support having documentation of no practices for a distribution I think we should recommend or do our best to recommend a practice because
[36:53] M making people make decisions.
[36:55] is one and interrupt. Nightmare.
[36:58] The eternal four.
[37:01] I don't know.
[37:02] an opinionated set of guides on what to do.
[37:04] So I think we should try it.
[37:07] recommendation in these documents. Yeah.
[37:11] But it's I I I think we can even do a vote.
[37:15] Yeah, but I'm even opening pieces in ODI.
[37:18] brand specification that the O yeah I can have a last follow on that I'm also okay with that.
[37:23] But still I think you should come either way even if it's one.
[37:27] Hey, this is the known uh I was saying known problems with that trade offs, but the one that we selected.
[37:33] Yeah, maybe have an external link, by the way.
[37:37] This does each requirements.
[37:41] with other approaches, so maybe you won't play a gage and see something there, the low graph will be required. Maybe the next year would have an LTS you will not be able to, you know
[37:55] But maybe for the next L T S you can participate and get the requirements that we're going to do.
[38:02] Proposal I can possibly be uh
[38:04] In all what's going on.
[38:07] Yeah, please go ahead and
[38:08] Yeah, and just say I think you're you're thinking ahead to the kind of
[38:12] what the appropriate recommendation might be for each kind of adopting user. So an individual might need something different from an enterprise might need something.
[38:19] It's like a proof.
[38:23] with this initial package work, we're just gonna go for the lowest common denominator stuff. So yes, we'll definitely put the pros and cons of a of a recommendation on there. But there needs to be something there so that
[38:33] As a new development of solid, so bear in mind hundreds of people are gonna discover or will have read about it in Tim's book or will have heard about it.
[38:41] They need to arrive.
[38:43] Without
[38:44] you know, uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh uh with all the decisions made to get something working immediately for them.
[38:49] And then they can look under the covers and go, Oh, I had five choices for that.
[38:53] So I might want to go this other direction and the community server allows me to do that if I want to use changes config.
[38:58] Uh or it might be that I'll join the persona working group in my industry.
[39:03] and I'll create the adoption guide for finance, or the adoption guide for healthcare, or the adoption guide for education.
[39:10] And that they would say, Oh, education everybody uses Google Classroom, so we're like we are dominant like my working is is like this. So basically that I expect us to work on sort of in the summer periods, once we've assembled these groups of kind of representative experts and got a much wider integrated.
[39:30] So as understand the the the the the the the the the the the the whatever will be published in general it will not be entered at a specific audience.
[39:41] And we owned at the new starter audience. So you you or this community group's obviously a group of experts, so
[39:47] It may not
[39:49] feel great for you all to look at it and go, Yeah, this doesn't really express the complexity and the power of solid, but
[39:55] But there's a whole group of people who we haven't met yet who are gonna be our future adopters who need to find this the technology quite accessible.
[40:01] And it's more aimed at that.
[40:03] Um
[40:04] with pointers into the reference guides that say okay if you're going to actually build an engineer a solution that uses solid technology in inherently inside it, then you need much more reference.
[40:14] architecture information or some patterns or um more complex integrations into existing technology stack. So that that that that material I think we would develop together over the course of the second part of the year.
[40:25] Th this early release is really just the the minimum.
[40:28] set of artifacts that we can get out there and and and point people to so that there's something in the middle of I read it in Tim's book versus I have a PhD in semantic web technology and I'm like
[40:38] Love solids, but there needs to be some middle ground. Um
[40:42] Artifacts. So it's it's a progression of that.
[40:45] Thank you. So for me it's mostly about about about about about about about about about about about signaling. So we say there will be people from different contexts that I'm trying to adopt.
[40:53] I would like to avoid that, you know, we document the the limitations of approaches that we kind of agreed to be familiar. I would like to avoid a person comes, says, Well actually this limitation is a showstopper for me, like for my requirements, for my use case, I cannot use that because just you know I cannot accept that limitation.
[41:11] So like that those people don't just say hey
[41:13] Let's forget about which move on the first appearance, but they say hey, okay, let's see what's being developed.
[41:19] and then join with uh advancing something that actually will meet the requirements in the existing kind of alternative work. So it's for me to
[41:29] to provide like a fallback for a person, like, oh it's not working for me, I'm done, to hey, maybe I need to put some extra work.
[41:36] But if I do it.
[41:37] For the next L T S, whatever we call it, I can get it to the point that now it is very requirements. It's mostly about
[41:43] That's it, yeah. And and those options they're sort of for the expert adopter, right? So there there there there there there there there there there there'll be a baseline recommendation that we want.
[41:54] Hundreds of people who just go, okay, yeah, you know, you guys know the technology better, I'll just take your advice. And then you're in somewhat of an expert position here where you'll go, actually, there are downsides here that I don't really want. So what's my channel back to the original community group or the standards group so that I can change the direction or
[42:11] provide more optionality on in implementation approaches.
[42:14] Uh
[42:15] that will definitely be par this release, you know, way of getting those people to engage with the Greek path. That's kind of the whole purpose of this is to say
[42:23] Like here's our baseline. It may not suit your use cases and we want to hear from you if it doesn't.
[42:28] And if it doesn't, please come and join one of our kind of persona specific groups so that you can tell us exactly where the gaps are and we can engineer a solution to that or design a uh
[42:37] Yeah, a protocol extension to it or
[42:39] and an integration into some ubiquitous technology that for that sector.
[42:43] That's what we want to hear about.
[42:44] Um but don't I'm not expecting them to be gonna be able to self serve their way out of that and say, Oh it's I'll just get away and configure it myself.
[42:50] They we we we we we we we want to hear about them and and you know get them back into it.
[42:53] either this community group or into some industry specific groups that we h we'll hopefully create.
[43:00] Go ahead, Chris.
[43:02] Um I was going to ask if we should get back on
[43:07] Two
[43:08] finding those people interested in reviewing and
[43:12] My team.
[43:13] The remaining one item.
[43:17] Yep, let's uh
[43:20] Um so the next one on my list.
[43:22] is very probable.
[43:26] I have this here because
[43:29] On the ODI from one of the
[43:30] One of the areas that we are
[43:32] seeing or interest in the UK is around digital production.
[43:37] Okay, what does a verifiable credential?
[43:40] Solution we saw look like
[43:42] or at the more exact level.
[43:45] Can solid support digital identity.
[43:47] So this
[43:57] Into a pot.
[44:00] Things like
[44:06] most importantly a recommendation.
[44:09] I D.
[44:10] in a verifiable credential be the web ID.
[44:19] ID is attached to your own.
[44:22] ODI we can lead on this work pattern as well.
[44:27] to speak on behalf of people not in this call.
[44:31] expectation Christoph will be interested'cause they've done a lot of work.
[44:35] Actuals in
[44:37] How many
[44:38] All of that.
[44:42] And in rock.
[44:45] I'm suspecting will be interested'cause they all wanna walk around to me.
[44:50] Oh
[44:52] Yeah, me too. So that DW feed work I did years ago was also
[44:57] And verifiable credentials.
[44:59] Um
[45:02] Do you want to be involved?
[45:03] Oh what the choices again?
[45:08] Reviewing.
[45:31] Then the next one.
[45:37] Vocation gas.
[45:40] Those walls.
[45:42] We want to have it.
[45:49] So this is
[45:52] Access to a resource and a solid pod.
[45:55] Way of asking the owner of that resource or someone who is in a position to change the access control.
[46:01] Results.
[46:04] Access.
[46:09] Soven, for instance, has a solution for access request.
[46:12] Question.
[46:14] All of them are based around inboxes and notifications.
[46:25] This is the specify.
[46:32] Also I'm happy to participate. Uh I have implementation and demo.
[46:38] access request using side access leads.
[46:40] the the the same applications and social agents can use.
[46:45] And also I've been doing some unconventional baby work around the Mallory exploration, where I don't are familiar with I do a demo of of kind of issues and exploits kind of some
[46:57] Ecosystem.
[46:58] So one of the to do is I have this for example inbox spammers.
[47:02] So when we rely on public inboxes, there will be an app that would be just public inboxes. So we can already like start planning
[47:10] If people like want to abuse it, how we can have some countermeasures. So one of the implementation part for me is
[47:17] Not us.
[47:18] imagining possible solutions but also like trying to harden them and
[47:22] You demonstrate possible flaws inside the process.
[47:29] Perfect.
[47:32] James.
[47:36] Um
[47:37] Yeah, I think the idea of access requests and um
[47:41] The way the inboxes work is certainly you know. Um
[47:44] Oh sort of
[47:45] Interesting.
[47:48] When you look at it, um um
[47:51] Here's probably not the time to talk that.
[47:53] The way we look at um
[47:55] access requests or accessing
[47:57] Um but it's probably worth having a conversation about that at some point.
[48:01] But maybe not right now.
[48:04] Awesome.
[48:05] Thank you, thanks.
[48:09] Then if there's no one else.
[48:12] interested in access request.
[48:16] Sorry, I I just needed to ask a dummy question.
[48:25] controls H
[48:26] So
[48:29] asking someone so your access control is saying, Here are my current commissions.
[48:35] An access request is saying I do not currently have access to this document.
[48:39] Please give me those permissions so I can access it.
[48:42] So in the
[48:43] Um Google Drive all it's
[48:46] Please give me access to this document. You hit that. Someone gets an email, they improve the access, and then you get given access.
[48:54] So the simplest model of an access request would be
[48:58] posting to someone's inbox.
[49:00] saying here is what I want the updated WACO ACL to look like.
[49:06] Okay, got it.
[49:10] Oh public.
[49:11] Very quickly I don't want to dive too deep, or just to clarify the scope. Do you only talk about access escalation requests that someone already knows about the existence of some resource maybe has a read access and does also request escalation to be write, possibly.
[49:25] Oh we also talk about access control, for example request it's a side, this is also also also the case that someone application, for example, does know that some resource exists because this is protecting information. So you can request without knowing identifying of the resource because you are not allowed to know its existence up front, is it working scope or you just narrow to escalation?
[49:48] We could also plan it for for for for later that does.
[49:53] W
[49:54] For this release, I think we need to keep it simple.
[49:57] I think it needs to be I know I know the URI of the
[50:01] I'm asking for a particular change to uh
[50:06] Okay, so it's just excavation for
[50:11] I see one of the
[50:14] Yeah, I was just thinking more from a user experience point of view.
[50:18] Does the
[50:20] Couple of the actors requests also include notifications.
[50:28] Have been made.
[50:31] How do we presume they're going to
[50:34] Okay, don't
[50:35] You look.
[50:37] Quite notify.
[50:46] So
[50:49] We can either do this in in in in in in in in in in in spec or out of spec.
[50:52] So there's a there's um
[50:54] a moral uh
[50:56] Your
[50:58] Yeah.
[51:00] Instance instance.
[51:06] And then CSS sent an email.
[51:10] B
[51:13] the CSS handle.
[51:22] And here's how you read the Q of the U.S.
[51:26] Oh against the storage.
[51:28] And here's how
[51:28] Jesus miss a request.
[51:32] And here's how you enact the
[51:35] Cool.
[51:36] So that an application includes access requests, I know.
[51:41] the existing solution based on inboxes.
[51:45] And approaches.
[51:46] You've got this list of things in an inbox you can watch changes in an inbox so you can get a notification when there's an access.
[51:53] And you can
[51:54] from a solid application to that list of access.
[51:58] Many ways of doing this.
[52:01] I think it's up to the group of people ranking and
[52:05] Reviewing this document set.
[52:13] I see you ready, thank you.
[52:16] Uh yes, I would also like to look for the access requests for viewing at least, or maybe writing as well, not entirely sure.
[52:23] Um
[52:25] And also for the uh
[52:28] Pro Hall and OER Well many OER part.
[52:31] May
[52:33] I may have time for it.
[52:36] Where to start?
[52:37] And don't know if I really have time or not, but
[52:41] No.
[52:43] Put you down on the question mark.
[52:49] Well that's a logistics question. We need to work out where we're going to
[52:54] Solid.
[52:55] Use things called the CP spackspace.
[52:59] should be somewhere public.
[53:07] So for notifications,
[53:11] to contribute, I presented it two years ago during Saucey, I implemented streaming HTTP and web hooks. I also implemented web push, but I find it less useful day to day.
[53:20] For example my my my uh implementation have you uses web cool streaming.
[53:26] Like for all the interactions I'm also happy to do modification.
[53:30] Uh no you haven't missed it.
[53:33] Added it now and put in against it.
[53:37] So thank you.
[53:42] Okay, we are at the top of the hour if someone wants to run over time, I'm happy to stay a little bit longer. Probably I would have thirty extra minutes. But I would like to close the official part and then see if someone wants to stay longer.
[53:56] What do you think that's great?
[53:57] Yeah, I'd I'd like to discuss
[54:06] Management all
[54:10] Okay, so let's say we do the slow over time, but if someone has to go at the top of the hour, thank you for joining. We will publish the minutes and this will be an ongoing conversation.
[54:20] Um let's go ahead and follow up just small over time.
[54:23] Yeah. So
[54:25] For
[54:29] We've got the four.
[54:31] documents that are already existing in solid space, which is the protocol or ID C
[54:41] Notification there's already a notification spectral.
[54:45] There is
[54:46] Small.
[54:47] really implemented by Morphe.
[54:52] Access requests.
[54:55] So
[54:57] for access request.
[55:00] That we
[55:02] Yeah.
[55:06] In the solid.
[55:08] Specification repo.
[55:11] Not where
[55:17] Contribute.
[55:19] Maybe I kinda we need to take the lead on
[55:28] Not to do the same for the best.
[55:30] I just want to
[55:32] Yeah.
[55:39] Uh thank just I'll suggest
[55:43] Possibly using new repo, especially if you want to track issues. Currently repo has hundreds of open issues.
[55:50] And also I think specification the only whole protocol was work by VPE and snapshots, O IDC, A C P work
[55:58] notifications all of them have their own reports. So I would
[56:02] Prefer I don't have like a strong
[56:05] objection to not do that, but I would prefer that we just
[56:08] If we want to write a new draft, we create a new report for that. I think it will be a
[56:13] Simpler to make it.
[56:16] Chucky should probably be a lot of
[56:18] Yeah, the language from from the past of the population.
[56:23] I'm happy with that and I suggest we do it under the solid GitHub organization.
[56:29] Um
[56:31] Is there a
[56:33] CG respect template.
[56:38] Uh yes, uh I mean w I'm using bite chef, so there is a CG byte check contained. I would assume for VSPEP you should have equivalent.
[56:47] There uh what's the difference?
[56:49] What is bike shadow is black shadow?
[56:52] But I should uh you just write Markdown.
[56:55] Pretty much.
[56:56] And then there's a Python generator, you can also run it on a CI that will generate which you know so we've pretty much
[57:01] Well you can work with Mark Bow and and
[57:04] Yeah, beat stuff.
[57:06] Okay. And other like other.
[57:08] C virtues.
[57:10] Five shed as their way of publishing sex.
[57:13] Yeah, then there's like
[57:15] It's one of the most heavily used. There's another new one actually that also is R state compatible.
[57:20] As the new CG that is coming up, it looks pretty pretty promising, but I think currently we're expecting Bike Chef on the two many for publishing up the twist and jobs.
[57:30] Okay. Uh
[57:32] I'm quite happy to use it.
[57:33] I should.
[57:35] Drawing above and locked down can be a lot.
[57:38] Easy.
[57:40] A
[57:44] Would anyone be
[57:46] drawing issue with the use of bank ship for these.
[57:49] New specifications.
[57:51] I would suggest the lead editor makes the choice because they would be responsible of regularly moving the work forward. So whatever fits the er ergonomy, I I would leave it to you know, who does the job cause the shots.
[58:04] After a thought.
[58:06] That's all I wanted to ask.
[58:08] In terms of logistics.
[58:17] Fantastic.
[58:24] Do you want to bring something up for the next meeting for the specific
[58:28] I think that I you think it's priority you can get moving on it or
[58:33] You think it can take more time than next?
[58:35] More concrete.
[58:37] follow up on one of the or two of the items.
[58:41] It's worth us huddling I think and figure out if there are enough people who are in this working group you would also be
[58:47] able to contribute to the writing or reviewing of one of the items, or if one of the items is written and needs review, we should definitely bring every
[58:53] Every item back here to be kind of.
[58:59] um whether there's enough time between now and next week to write one, have the dedicated reviewer review it and provide feedback.
[59:05] act on the feedback and also bring it to the community group. Don't know about that.
[59:08] Um we'll we'll see.
[59:10] Depends how much uh how many cycles people have available.
[59:14] How about by next we we try to get for each of the drafts either existing or a new one that would be part of the bundle to see who would be the active editor, either one of the existing ones?
[59:24] which will not always be possible for a new person to step up as a
[59:28] So at least we try to make sure that we know who's leading the specific
[59:33] Well.
[59:34] Does that sound uh realistic to have to buy next week?
[59:43] I don't know.
[59:46] I'll say it's trying because again if you want to have it done in three months, I think clarifying that part would be very important to know.
[59:54] How and if it will start with it before.
[59:57] Yeah, sorry, can you
[59:59] temporarily distracting.
[60:02] Repeat exactly what you wanted to clarify.
[60:04] Yeah, the
[60:06] So I think we have the few existing documents and I will these probably two new ones at least. But uh we have like a person says yes, I'll be regularly like you know, you can say that.
[60:18] Two three hours a week I'll be working on that. So then we'll be listed as an editor and for existing documents we can also see you know the existing editors are willing to pick up the work or willing to find some in person to to be the leading
[60:33] person to like you know wrap it up. And and again, depending on the scope, maybe just merging pull request with my issues that uh
[60:39] That maybe they're going to go work. But I think if there's no name, the specific time commitment.
[60:44] I think it will not be the forward for my
[60:47] Perfect.
[60:48] Uh makes sense to me.
[60:50] We will do our best.
[60:52] So try and get it.
[60:54] From the ABI side.
[60:55] So I can't get on.
[61:00] Okay, with that, uh thank you everyone for joining. We can follow up on Mailing List, the Matrix channel.
[61:07] Um you have not anything next to
[61:10] Awesome.
[61:11] Thank you all for that.
[61:13] Everyone.
[61:15] But
