# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2026-02-04T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* theo @thhck

## Present

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* Theo
* [Michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
* Precious Oritsedere
* Alain Bourgeois
* [Rui Zhao](https://me.ryey.icu)
* Christoph Braun - [uvdsl](https://github.com/uvdsl)
* Jesse Wright
* Oli Bage
* Matthew (joined at 14:25Z)
* <a href="https://csarven.ca/#i" rel="schema:attendee">Sarven Capadisli</a> (joined at 14:30Z)

## Regrets

* 

## Scribes

* elf Pavlik (just bullet points, sorry!)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines

* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! Please introduce yourself.

---



## Introductions

* 


## Actions Review

*  
 
  
## Topics

### W3C Breakouts Day 2026 (2 min)


* eP: Would someone like to work on organizing a session?
* Session take place on:
    25 March, 13:00-15:00 UTC (two 1-hour slots)
    26 March, 21:00-23:00 UTC (two 1-hour slots)
* deadline for proposal 10 Mars
* JW: I can share some ideas for common requirements
* SC: (chat): Any development in the Solid CG re AP since last year that's noteworthy to bring to the attention of SWCG (  https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/708#issuecomment-2620935475 )?
* eP: we are discussing a joined meeting
* SC: It's great the people have interest in a bridge. My only concern is that we had this discussion in the past. I'm wondering what has changed that we have yet another breakout session with them. What tangible can come out from it? I know about [ActivtyPods](https://activitypods.org/) as for implementation. Spec wise there is a way to implement things. 
* eP: mentioning onging active engagement in activitypub-interop repo.
* M: it could be a good start to start bringing it to Solid CG first and look later how to bring it to Social CG later.
* eP: There may be limited familiarity in Solid CG with Fediverse tech

### Poll for new CG weekly call
https://app.rallly.co/invite/IWNpZiVCsFZd

* eP: some participants can't join at our current time we can try to schedule a new one
* eP: mentioning WAC and ACP and benefit of both Matthieu and Sarven present in the discussions
* SC: My availability varies, sometimes I have conflicts. I can try to adjust to the group.
* Th: FedID has alternating times to accomdate different timezones

### FedCM - Quick Update (10 min)
https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/issues/71

* th: DEMO
* SC: how does user manage IdPs?
* Th: IdP can ask to register itself. The user can allow or block.
* SC: Where is it stored?
* Th: In the browser
* SC: Local storage or something more secure
* SC: Can user revoke it?
* Th: You should be able to revoke it through browser API
* SC: So browser don't have UI to manage it yet?
* CB: The whole registration is managed by the browser itself, neither client (RP) or the server (IdP)
* eP: there is a quick hack for a client: https://github.com/uvdsl/solid-oidc-client-browser/pull/30

### 2026 ODI Roadmap

* eP: Do we aim LTS 2026 to have two independent implementations? for example
  * CSS - solidcommunity.net
  * ESS - solid.theodi.org
* eP: Rough roadmap that includes Solid LTS 2026, LWS and Solid LTS 2028ish - how to clearly signal already expected changes?
* JW: I asked Tim about naming, 1.0 LTS distributions. Suggestion was Solid 2026, just a timestamp in the ground. 
* ...
* CB: what do you think is required except what is already there?
* JW: for script login there is a static registration in ESS, CSS uses username password.
* CB: in our instance you login to user account and you create a client credentials.
* JW: is it the same in ESS? last time i used i was posting username/pass
* eP: rambling
* JW: I will share document by next week
* eP: ACP vs WAC
* OB: We want to gather implementation data
* CB: I would encourage caution how to approach this debate. It has been creating quite a rift. There have been a lot of issues acknowledged in both camps. I'm not sure if for 2026 it is reasonable to explain the differences, or provide more guidance. Rather than picking one and divide the community.
* eP: Features in scope, for example no app authorization at all or limited app authorization only available for the Resource Owner via something like `acp:client` matcher (or [improved WAC](https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/pull/133))
* eP: need for client restrictions eg `acp:client`
* CB: There is a long demand for that feature in WAC, I created a PR. Noting that WAC is still being worked on and ACP didn't see changes.
* eP: Matthieu would need to engage to make any further work on ACP
* CB: We should consider who actively is using it and have request for features, test stability, have feedback from practicioners. 
* CB: I wanted to answer to Pavlik, I also opened PR to OIDC on RFC 9207 (issuer). Aaron has responded, I replied and now I wait for the answer.
* eP: I would like to invite you to step up as coeditor of the spec.
* CB: Let's take this initia PR as a practice run.

### 2026 CG Roadmap (10+ min)
https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/issues/54


## Actions

* eP to follow up in mailing list
* JW to share first draft of `diff LWS Solid` Note
* JW to share notes on Fediverse with everyone

