# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2026-04-22T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair

* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)

## Present

* <a href="https://csarven.ca/#i" rel="schema:attendee">Sarven Capadisli</a>
* [Christoph Braun - uvdsl](https://github.com/uvdsl)
* Aaron Coburn (Inrupt)
* Roberto S.K. Breitman
* Jeff Zucker
* Alain Bourgeois
* Tobias Käfer
* [Rui Zhao](https://me.ryey.icu)
* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com)
* [Tim Berners-Lee](https://timbl.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* Grace Elcock
* [Luke Dary](https://w3c.social/@lukedary)
* [Jesse Wright](https://www.jeswr.org/)

## Regrets

*

---

## Scribe

* [Christoph Braun - uvdsl](https://github.com/uvdsl)

### Meeting Guidelines

* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! Please introduce yourself.

---

## Introductions


## Announcements

### 📢 WAC Access Conditions
https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/pull/134

* SC/CB: This is stable for ED.
* SC/CB: Next steps: implementations first, incorporate implementers feedback, then update TR/wac
* SC: Propose to merge it into ED.
* eP: Anyone present how needs more time to review
* ...: ... hearing none ... 
* eP: Good to go. Merge it.
* SC: Thank you.

## Topics

### Action review
* eP ✅ to schedule Rui's demo for 2026-04-22


### Demos

### Solid Planner: Simple yet useful weekly planning app

* RZ: A local-first TODO app, but focused on automatic weekly planning to get things done


### Solid26

#### Solid26 - Solid-OIDC
https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pull/252

* CB: Addresses https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues/250 and captures the authentication flow that all current server and client implementations support (as of 2026-04-21).
* ...: This specification version is a snapshot of Solid-OIDC, where a Client uses a global DPOP-bound access token issued by an OpenID Provider to authenticate at an Resource Server.
* eP: Was the intent for Client Credentials to be included in Solid26?
* CB: https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pull/252#issuecomment-4290449076
* CB: Current Solid-OIDC 0.1 recommends flow for example using UMA. It's fine but it is not widely implemented. I'm not aware of open source implementation. That prompted us to reflect what actually is implemented across servers. The idea was, based on Pavlik's historic knowledge, that there had been a version that uses a global access token and we can dig it up. 
* ...: I did that in this PR
* eP: From my reviewing, it seems good.
* AC: Thank you for going through this, and identifying the features that we want to retain and the features that might be retired. There are two feature changes in this PR: (a) it removes `as_uri` header (of which I would be in favor), and (b) it changes the effective token from an ID token to an access token (which seems an okay change, given how the community does it). The current requirement of UMA is a SHOULD, so dropping it would not have much effect. Any implementation that wants can implement it on top.
* ...: The change from ID token to access token is more controversial.
* ...: What I would prefer is to put these changes to main and publish 0.2, such that we don't recommend an old version.
* eP: I think I agree with AC, here. There are also LWS authentication suites. Publishing 0.2 would signal to people what is currently there.
* CB: Thank you for all the feedback, Aaron. Earlier I said that those changes are what is already out there. I'm confused on whether the change from ID Token to Access Token would be that controversial? Not sure here.
* SC: I don't quite follow the suggestion to deprecate something or whether the current state of Solid-OIDC will be considered or unstable/stable w.r.t. to what the Solid Protocol is, before suggesting to swap it for anything.
* ...: I think authentication mechanisms for Solid are a consideration on their own. I'd like to better understand the discussion around whether or how Solid-OIDC is good enough to a point.
* AC: The change from ID to access token is conceptually significant. Personally, I would support that, and the community might not see this as controversial.
* ...: SC, you are right: Authentication you might use in the browser might be very different, but authentication on the CLI might better work another way.
* ...: Solid-OIDC works well in the browser but maybe not in a different environment. So maybe, we should have affordances to work with different authentication mechanisms.
* eP: https://elf-pavlik.github.io/lws-auth/view/oidc/?dynamic=sequence AC, might LWS authentication suites superseed Solid OIDC. Question to AC and JW, can LWS provide something that superseedes Solid-OIDC or are they redundant.
* AC: There are two perspective:
* ...: a server might implement multiple authentication suites. LWS relies on OAuth. In Solid-OIDC, there are some places where OIDC might not forbid it but it is also not defining what we specify and use. So this goes out of what is already defined. LWS is just using vanilla OAuth. It does not forbid using different authentication suites.
* JW: There might be a subset of the authentication suites defined in LWS, that the CG might be intereseted in.
* eP: From my perspective, I miss a kind of a roadmap what might be available to people in 2 years.
* SC: I think there is a bunch of stuff that needs to happen before the CG can consider to adopt something. LWS auth work is not incubated. And no horizontal reviews yet. This includes scrutinizing what would be entailed by adopting a particular specification. Is it a mere swap of the auth spec or other specs need to change? So what kind of baggage there may be? Implications of a change should be clear to the ecosystem / communtiy before jumping into concrete ideas to adopt something. LWS is not the only thing out there as far as spec goes that might be interesting to Solid. I would caution to re-visit what Solid needs to fulfill the vision.
* eP: For the PR, one option is 0.2.0.
* AC: I would suggest to open two PRs for (a) substituing the ID token for access token and (b) remove as_uri and UMA.
* eP: So the end result would be the same?
* AC: yes.
* JW: Supportive of that. 
* CB: For me that's ok we can do that. As long as it is reflected how it works at the moment. 
* eP: Last point here: Client Credentials. Do we add that?
* JW: I had initially requested to include it in the ED as I thought it was widely supported.
* AC: It is currently a MUST. We can consider it to have it as a SHOULD.
* JW: Reasonable to me. One question: Is there one mechansim that clients can use OIDC to do script-based authentication?
* AC: Client credentials is OAuth, OIDC is on top. Doing it with OIDC is not the best fit. 

#### solid26: WebID Guidance
https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/781 

 JW: Context: the reason why it is separate is because this is alot of content and in the original PR where alot of comments already.
* ...: The goal is to reflect what is already in the WebID and Solid Profile spec. There exist comments that need to be adressed. 
* ...: There was e.g. a list of predicates that are used by clients. SC provided a list of predicates that dokieli uses. So maybe this is a good place to start.
* SC: Have it here but https://github.com/dokieli/dokieli/blob/33b117f839f567f92850763aadf7ca71dc060858/src/graph.js#L1447 well, the suggestion was more on the conceptual side. Guidance should be around what Solid WebID Profile says, and then in addition on handling equivalent predicates. Implementers might benefit from ... To give an example, WebID might be deployed in different contexts, so there may be differences in which elements are in a WebID profile. Writing, fine that might be mostly using Solid. But reading, a client might use different predicates than another client from another domain.
* eP: My main concern Security and Privacy considerations are not reflected. For example, protecting `solid:oidcIssuer`. I have a demo where an app can change that. There is also a privacy issue regarding the CG type index, which is addressed in WG type indexes draft. The document does not make this apparent.
* JZ: Comment that must be adressed: a client should be expected to look for the extended profile document starting by the WebID profile itself, not from a preferences document. It should not be limited to the preferences document.
* JW: I think it should be referenced that the entrypoint is both WebID profile and preferences document.
* ...: re security, the specification already rules out the oidc issuer regarding extension documents.
* eP: but the main issue of the triple not being protected remains.
* SC: It is always a good idea to detail considerations.
* ...: but let's dissect carefully what this issue means for the Solid Protocol. If we take the position that a server cannot correctly protect the triples that are stored, then we can ask implementers for feedback: Do you think that is a good idea? Do you do it? Solid Protocol talks about it.
* ...: Having the consideration sections are good. The concern is not limited to Solid WebID Profile. The other thing is, if it is not done at that level, i.e., to protect data here, then what are alternatives. If there is no evidence what alternative is "better" then it is not a horrible thing to have it in there.
 

#### feat: initialise Solid26 implementors guide
https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/776

* JW: The most important issue that needs discussion around the main Solid26, is clarifying the outcome of the discussion outside of time to the CG meeting around access control.
* ...: We were discussion having both WAC and ACP referenced, and then having the data referenced as a signal.
...: So my understanding was that we would have both WAC and ACP versioned.
* SC: The most common understanding of the conversation is what was discussed during the CG call, and with luck, in the minutes. 
* eP: In the session that I do at SoSy, we talk about authorizing applications. WAC implementations without the PR discussed earlier does not allow this. 
* SC: If there are no criteria to evaluate, then the discussion will result in discussion participants agreeing and get what they want. The agreement about the process was set in a CG meeting, and that would be recommended. ... on agreement, on implementation being avaiable ... agreement was already reached, it might not be perfect. But that was what was agreed.
* AC: Authorization is fundamental to providing a security baseline and how we can position it to implementers. There are many use cases where WAC is sufficient, I do not dispute that. Coming with my Inrupt hat on, the businesses that we work with, they handle regulated data, looking at their requirements, WAC does not work. This was one of the reasons that we came up with ACP. I think it is important that we recognize that there might be use cases that can be better served using ACP or even others like ODRL. By strongly encourage WAC, I fear we steer implementers into the wrong direction.
* SC: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/55 , checking in from 2019 . https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/121
* CB: Thank you for that feedback. In my experience working with partners from highly regulated industry. It is possible to comply using WAC. You need to work with WAC to solve the problem. Similar to how you would work with ACP. The authorization language doesn't provide the solution bu itself. The wording we have, WAC will act as the baseline. It is more widely deployed than ACP. In the text and the wording we already have, if implementers find WAC not sufficient then they can talk to community and ask for feedback. If that still is not the case one can use ACP, ODRL etc. ACP has not been removed from the protocol.
* OB: The purpose of Solid26 was to get feedback by wider groups, not locking in certain baselines.
* ...: Was also the goal to discover what is out there. And we see that both are used, WAC more, ACP less.
* ...: Going forward, feedback will come in. So this is not a one-way door. So, aiming to make Solid easier to adopt in broad.
* SC: It is not that closed source or private uses of Solid is forbidden or anything. What the work of Solid was trying to do, was to fight for the open Web. We know that WAC is not perfect, and that WAC and ACP are in the same category, so we might want to go back and consider other authorization mechanisms, like ODRL. We don't have a good representation of the private implementations, we might hear about them in 2nd or 3rd hand. We have not received any feedback from implementers. If it was that significant, then ... It was not reached back to the CG. The stakeholders provided no feedback, no benefit to the CG. We kinda forced ACP in the Solid Protocol. I am not saying that ACP should not be incubated. I hear that "we want Solid26", who is we? If "we" is the CG, then all particpants get a say in what should go in or not. It is absolutely fine if this group decides that this document is better placed elsewhere then this is fine. I believe the status of editing that JW and CB has currently done up to this point is good.
* ...: There were elements of ACP that were rushed in, and for WAC we took more time to specify it. We are now running it through the usual process, even with taking it slow.
* ...: I don't see why WAC is inadequate for Solid26.
* ...: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/121
* CB: I urge group to wrap up the meeting.
* TBL: This is important, so maybe we can schedule this earlier next time?
* ...: I am a big supporter of WAC. If did lots of work for WAC, and I used WAC alot, and for most things it works. However, I noticed that I could not use WAC when running Solid on my Apache Server. Apache does "deny"-things, it is more complicated that WAC is to simple. If Inrupt finds that there are systems out there that are too complex for WAC and might require ACP. The fact that those systems are not open source. I think you have to accept this even if this comes from a corporate particpant. 
* CB: Thank you Tim. My gut feeling is that arguments are all valid in their own rights. ACP is more expressive than WAC, can't do *deny*. Nobody disputes that. There are some use cases that require that functionality. What the question here really is what should be the first place to look at when considering authorization mechanisms. The community thinks what you should use, if you find that your system is too complex. Then by all means go use it. It doesn't mean that we need to recommend WAC and ACP on par, given that we agreed on something based on data.
* AC: I don't know who added Inrupt data, it is not one and we don't disclose it in general. The way it is framed and the way I would recommend: different use cases have different requirements and will require different systems. WAC is widely adopted and serves certain use cases well, there are other use cases, which may be more appropriate for ACP.
* JW: I want to follow up on different use cases for Solid. Sarve has raised that originally one of big usecases was and still is the social web. The resolution may be that applications build around social web use WAC and that there are other use cases out there and you may consider your choce based on it. 
* SC: I said open we with respect to fixing the Web stuff.. Not social Web specifically although it is included in there. 
* TK: +1 for not limiting WAC to social 
* CB: WAC is also used in industry ...
* JZ: It seems that based on survey we have to recommend WAC, it doesn't mean that we shouldn't mention ACP. I don't want to say it is just for social media. There are public sources used by non-profits. There are many use cases where WAC works.
* RZ: I just want to add one thing. We are discussing which spec to include. It's good to have ??? out. For the deveolpers, we need set of ecosystems libraries apps software that supports all the futures or most that we advocate for. As we show Solid 26, we should include things that have working support.
* JW: I'm not suggesting that we claim that WAC is only recommended for the Social Web. Based on your use case WAC can be applied. Solid is used in open social web ecosystem. There are also closed ecosystems where Solid is deployed and you can select language there. We shouldn't limit ourselves.
* CB: needs to leave
* eP: CG doesn't have to reach consensus on everything, we are not WG
* SC: I didn't mean only Social Web. The problems in how people engage in the public sphere and the most significant use cases. Give people control back from centralized platforms. That was at the fore front picture. Putting bank data and critical health record wasn't the original use case. They are still important. 
* JZ: I'd like to ask if anyone objects saying that WAC is easy to use, widely supported on the open web. Where it is not sufficient consider others such as ACP, ODRL, etc.
* eP: ...
* RZ: don't object to most of it. ODRL shouldn't be part of the story due to limited suport in Solid. WAC and ACP are in more similar position.
* SC: I don't strongly object or agree. For Jeff's question on simplicity, we haven't even venture in implementing ACP. How it feels for UI, what does it look like. The only thing is from the people who worked on it. Virginia Balseiro would be one person, as a a front-end dev implementer experience on the record in the CG saying that ACP is a headache, compared to doing something with WAC. Who want's those complex things, maybe an admin. Unless that changes I would like that in writting. For control over one's own data often WAC is enough. I sound often critical about ACP, it has some great features but not what we are optimising for.
* ??: Currently WAC and ACP, WAC is widely deployed. You should consider use cases and where do you want to deploy it. 
* TK: Keep it requirements focused, not WAC is in a social corner for example. Keep it factual. 
* JW: Solid 26 implementers guide is non-normative but is a CG published document.
* OB: We just talk about final wording in separate PR. 
* RZ: Also worth emphasizing / reassuring that WAC or ACP are server-internal implementation details for most apps, so that shouldn't be worried about for normal users at all (unless they want to modify the permissions). 


## Actions 

* CB to split into two PRs
* JW to PR MUST -> SHOULD
* JW to write a paragraph, close to what Jeff, Aaron and Pavlik said about use cases. 



## Decisions
